CONTENTS

Prologue – Before the Kill
Дома – Home
Крокодилы – Crocodiles
Лес – The Forest
Ночь – Night
КирсК – Kirsk
Москва – Moscow
Тверская – Tverskaya
Форточник – Fortochnik
Русская pулетка – Russian Roulette
Серебряный бор – Silver Forest
Механик – The Mechanic
Болтино – Boltino
Венеция – Venice

3/621

Остров – The Island
Нью-Йорк – New York
Второй шанс – Second Chance
Охотник – Hunter
Командир – The Commander
Париж – Paris
Мощность плюс – Power Plus
Убийца – The Assassin
Epilogue – The Kill

For J, N & C – but not L.

Full circle.

PROLOGUE

BEFORE THE KILL

He had chosen the hotel room very carefully.

As he crossed the reception area towards the
lifts, he was aware of everyone around him. Two
receptionists, one on the phone. A Japanese guest
checking in … from his accent, obviously from
Miyazaki in the south. A concierge printing a
map for a couple of tourists. A security man,
Eastern European, bored, standing by the door.
He saw everything. If the lights had suddenly
gone out, or if he had closed his eyes, he would
have been able to continue forward at exactly the
same pace.

Nobody noticed him. It was actually a skill,
something he had learned, the art of not being
seen. Even the clothes he wore – expensive jeans,
a grey cashmere jersey and a loose coat – had
been chosen because it made no statement at all.
They were well-known brands but he had cut out

the labels. In the unlikely event
that he was
stopped by the police, it would be very difficult
for them to know where the outfit had been
bought.

8/621

He was in his thirties but looked younger. He
had fair hair, cut short, and ice-cold eyes with
just the faintest trace of blue. He was not large or
well built but there was a sort of sleekness about
him. He moved like an athlete – perhaps a sprint-
er approaching the starting blocks – but there was
a sense of danger about him, a feeling that you
should leave well alone. He carried three credit
cards and a driving licence, issued in Swansea,
all with the name Matthew Reddy. A police
check would have established that he was a per-
sonal trainer, that he worked in a London gym
and lived in Brixton. None of this was true. His
real name was Yassen Gregorovich. He had been
a professional assassin for almost half his life.

The hotel was in King’s Cross, an area of Lon-
don with no attractive shops, few decent restaur-
ants and where nobody really stays any longer

9/621

than they have to. It was called The Traveller and
it was part of a chain; comfortable but not too ex-
pensive. It was the sort of place that had no regu-
lar clients. Most of the guests were passing
through on business and it would be their com-
panies that paid the bill. They drank in the bar.
They ate the “full English breakfast” in the
brightly lit Beefeater restaurant. But they were
too busy to socialize and it was unlikely they
would return. Yassen preferred it that way. He
could have stayed in central London, in the Ritz
or the Dorchester, but he knew that the reception-
ists there were trained to remember the faces of
the people who passed through the revolving
doors. Such personal attention was the last thing
he wanted.

A CCTV camera watched him as he ap-
proached the lifts. He was aware of it, blinking
over his left shoulder. The camera was annoying
but inevitable. London has more of these devices
than any city in Europe, and the police and secret
service have access to all of them. Yassen made

10/621

sure he didn’t look up. If you look at a camera,
that is when it sees you. He reached the lifts but
ignored them, slipping through a fire door that
led to the stairs. He would never think of confin-
ing himself in a small space, a metal box with
doors that he couldn’t open, surrounded by
strangers. That would be madness. He would
have walked fifteen storeys if it had been neces-
sary – and when he reached the top he wouldn’t
even have been out of breath. Yassen kept him-
self in superb condition, spending two hours in
the gym every day when that luxury was avail-
able to him, working out on his own when it
wasn’t.

His room was on the second floor. He had
thoroughly checked the hotel on the Internet be-
fore he made his reservation and number 217 was
one of just four rooms that exactly met his de-
mands. It was too high up to be reached from the
street but low enough for him to jump out of the
window if he had to – after shooting out the
glass. It was not overlooked. There were other

11/621

buildings around but any form of surveillance
would be difficult. When Yassen went to bed, he
never closed the curtains. He liked to see out, to
watch for any movement in the street. Every city
has a natural rhythm and anything that breaks it –
a man lingering on a corner or a car passing the
same way twice – might warn him that it was
time to leave at once. And he never slept for
more than four hours, not even in the most com-
fortable bed.

A DO NOT DISTURB sign hung in front of
him as he turned the corner and approached the
door. Had it been obeyed? Yassen reached into
his trouser pocket and took out a small silver
device, about the same size and shape as a pen.
He pressed one end, covering the handle with a
thin spray of diazafluoren – a simple chemical re-
agent. Quickly, he spun the pen round and
pressed the other end, activating a fluorescent
light. There were no fingerprints. If anyone had
been into the room since he had left, they had
wiped the handle clean. He put the pen away,

12/621

then knelt down and checked the bottom of the
door. Earlier in the day, he had placed a single
hair across the crack. It was one of the oldest
warning signals in the book but that didn’t stop it
being effective. The hair was still
in place.
Yassen straightened up and, using his electronic
pass key, went in.

It took him less than a minute to ascertain that
everything was exactly as he had left
it. His
briefcase was 4.6 centimetres from the edge of
the desk. His suitcase was positioned at a 95 de-
gree angle from the wall. There were no finger-
prints on either of the locks. He removed the di-
gital tape recorder that had been clipped magnet-
ically to the side of his service fridge and glanced
at the dial. Nothing had been recorded. Nobody
had been in. Many people would have found all
these precautions annoying and time-consuming
but for Yassen they were as much a part of his
daily routine as tying his shoelaces or cleaning
his teeth.

13/621

It was twelve minutes past six when he sat
down at the desk and opened his computer, an or-
dinary Apple MacBook. His password had seven-
teen digits and he changed it every month. He
took off his watch and laid it on the surface be-
side him. Then he went to eBay, left-clicked on
Collectibles and scrolled through Coins. He soon
found what he was looking for: a gold coin show-
ing the head of the emperor Caligula with the
date AD11. There had been no bids for this par-
ticular coin because, as any collector would
know, it did not in fact exist. In AD11, the mad
Roman emperor, Caligula, had not even been
born. The entire website was a fake and looked it.
The name of the coin dealer – Mintomatic – had
been specially chosen to put off any casual pur-
chaser. Mintomatic was supposedly based in
Shanghai and did not have Top-rated Seller
status. All the coins it advertised were either fake
or valueless.

Yassen sat quietly until a quarter past six. At
exactly the moment that the second hand passed

14/621

over the twelve on his watch, he pressed the but-
ton to place a bid, then entered his User ID –
false, of course – and password. Finally, he
entered a bid of £2,518.15. The figures were
based on the day’s date and the exact time. He
pressed ENTER and a window opened that had
nothing to do with eBay or with Roman coins.
Nobody else could have seen it. It would have
been impossible to discover where it had origin-
ated. The message had been bounced around a
dozen countries, travelling through an anonymity
network, before it had reached him. This is
known as onion routing because of its many lay-
ers. It had also passed through an encrypted tun-
nel, a secure shell, that ensured that only Yassen
could read what had been written. If someone
had managed to arrive at the same screen by acci-
dent, they would have seen only nonsense and
within three seconds a virus would have entered
their computer and obliterated the motherboard.
The Apple
computer, however, had been

authorized to receive the message and Yassen
saw three words:

15/621

KILL ALEX RIDER

They were exactly what he had expected.

Yassen had known all along that his employers
would insist on punishing the agent who had
been involved in the disaster that the Stormbreak-
er operation had become. He even wondered if he
himself might not be made to retire … perman-
ently, of course. It was simple common sense. If
people failed, they were eliminated. There were
no second chances. Yassen was lucky in that he
had been employed as a subcontractor. He didn’t
have
had
happened and at the end of the day he couldn’t be
blamed. On the other hand, they would have to
make an example of Alex Rider. It didn’t matter
that he was just fourteen years old. Tomorrow he
would have to die.

responsibility

Yassen looked at the screen for a few seconds
more, then closed the computer. He had never
killed a child before but
the thought did not

overall

for what

17/621

particularly trouble him. Alex Rider had made his
own choices. He should have been at school, but
instead, for whatever reason, he had allowed the
Special Operations Division of MI6 to recruit
him. From schoolboy to spy. It was certainly un-
usual – but the truth was, he had been remarkably
successful. Beginner’s luck, maybe, but he had
brought an end to an operation that had been sev-
eral years in the planning. He was responsible for
the deaths of two operatives. He had annoyed
some extremely powerful people. He very much
deserved the death that was coming his way.

And yet…
Yassen sat where he was with the computer in
front of him. Nothing had changed in his expres-
sion but there was, perhaps, something flickering
deep in his eyes. Outside, the sun was beginning
to set, the evening sky turning a hard, unforgiv-
ing grey. The streets were full of commuters hur-
rying home. They weren’t just on the other side
of a hotel window. They were in another world.
Yassen knew that he would never be one of them.

Briefly, he closed his eyes. He was thinking
about what had happened. About Stormbreaker.
How had it gone so wrong?

18/621

From Yassen’s point of view, it had been a
fairly routine assignment. A Lebanese business-
man by the name of Herod Sayle had wanted to
buy two hundred litres of a deadly smallpox virus
called R5 and he had approached the one organ-
ization that might be able to supply it in such
huge quantities. That organization was Scorpia.
The letters of the name stood for sabotage, cor-
ruption,
intelligence and assassination, which
were its main activities. R5 was a Chinese
product, manufactured illegally in a facility near
Guiyang, and by chance one of the members of
the executive board of Scorpia was Chinese. Dr
Three had extensive contacts in East Asia and
had used his influence to organize the purchase.
It had been Yassen’s job to oversee delivery to
the UK.

Six weeks ago, he had flown to Hong Kong a
few days ahead of the R5, which had been

19/621

transported in a private plane, a turboprop Xian
MA60, from Guiyang. The plan was to load it in-
to a container ship to Rotterdam – disguised as
part of a shipment of Luck of the Dragon Chinese
beer. Special barrels had been constructed at a
warehouse in Kowloon, with reinforced glass
containers holding the R5 suspended inside the
liquid. There are more than five thousand con-
tainer ships at sea at any one time and around
seventeen million deliveries are made every year.
There isn’t a customs service in the world that
can keep its eye on every cargo and Yassen was
confident that the journey would be trouble-free.
He’d been given a false passport and papers that
identified him as Erik Olsen, a merchant seaman
from Copenhagen, and he would travel with the
R5 until it reached its destination.

But, as is so often the way, things had not gone
as planned. A few days before the barrels were
due to leave, Yassen had become aware that the
warehouse was under surveillance. He had been
lucky. A cigarette being lit behind a window in a

20/621

building that should have been empty told him all
he needed to know. Slipping through Kowloon
under cover of darkness, he had identified a team
of three agents of the AIVD – the Algemene In-
lichtingen en Veiligheidsdienst – the Dutch secret
service. There must have been a tip-off. The
agents did not know what they were looking for
but they were aware that something was on its
way to their country and Yassen had been forced
to kill all three of them with a silenced Beretta
92, a pistol he particularly favoured because of
its accuracy and reliability. Clearly, the R5 could
not leave in a container ship after all. A fallback
had to be found.

As it happened, there was a Chinese Han class
nuclear submarine in Hong Kong going through
final repairs before leaving for exercises in the
Northern Atlantic. Yassen met the captain in a
private club overlooking the harbour and offered
him a bribe of two million American dollars to
carry the R5 with him when he left. He had in-
formed Scorpia of this decision and they knew

21/621

that it would dig into their operational profit but
there were at least some advantages. Moving the
R5 from Rotterdam to the UK would have been
difficult and dangerous. Herod Sayle was based
in Cornwall with direct access to the coast, so the
new approach would make for a much more se-
cure delivery.

Two weeks later, on a crisp, cloudless night in
April, the submarine surfaced off the Cornish
coast. Yassen, still using the identity of Erik
Olsen, had travelled with it. He had quite enjoyed
the experience of cruising silently through the
depths of the ocean, sealed in a metal tube. The
Chinese crew had been ordered not to speak to
him on any account and that suited him too. It
was only when he climbed onto dry land that he
once again took command, overseeing the trans-
fer of the virus and other supplies that Herod
Sayle had ordered. The work had to be done
swiftly. The captain of the submarine had insisted
that he would wait no more than thirty minutes.
He might have two million dollars in a Swiss

22/621

looking

somehow fantastic

bank account but he had no wish to provoke an
international incident … which would certainly
have been followed by his own court martial and
execution.

Thirty guards had helped carry the various
boxes to the waiting trucks, scrambling along the
shoreline in the light of a perfect half-moon, the
submarine
and
out of place, half submerged in the slate-grey wa-
ter of the English Channel. And almost from the
start, Yassen had known something was wrong.
He was being watched. He was sure of it. Some
might call it a sort of animal instinct but for
Yassen it was simpler than that. He had been act-
ive in the field for many years. During that time,
he had been in danger almost constantly. It had
been necessary to fine-tune all his senses simply
to survive. And although he hadn’t seen or heard
anything, a silent voice was screaming at him
that
twenty
metres away, behind a cluster of boulders on the
edge of the beach.

there was someone hiding about

23/621

He had been on the point of investigating when
one of Sayle’s men, standing on the wooden
jetty, had dropped one of the boxes. The sound of
metal hitting wood shattered the calm of the night
and Yassen spun on his heel, everything else for-
gotten. There was limited space on the submarine
and so the R5 had been transferred from the beer
barrels
aluminium boxes.
Yassen knew that if the glass vial inside had been
shattered, if the rubber seal had been comprom-
ised, everyone on the beach would be dead be-
fore the sun had risen.

to less-protective

He sprinted forward, crouching down to in-
spect the damage. There was a slight dent in one
side of the box. But the seal had held.

The guard looked at him with a sickly smile.
He was quite a lot older than Yassen, probably an
ex-convict recruited from a local prison. And he
was scared. He tried to make light of it. “I won’t
do that again!” he said.

“No,” Yassen replied. “You won’t.” The Ber-
etta was already in his hand. He shot the man in

24/621

the chest, propelling him backwards into the
darkness and the sea below. It had been neces-
sary to set an example. There would be no further
clumsiness that night.

Sitting in the hotel with the computer in front
of him, Yassen remembered the moment. He was
almost certain now that it had been Alex Rider
behind the boulder and if it hadn’t been for the
accident, he would have been discovered there
and then. Alex had infiltrated Sayle Enterprises,
pretending to be the winner of a magazine com-
petition. Somehow he had slipped out of his
room, evading the guards and the searchlights,
and had joined the convoy making its way down
to the beach. There could be no other explana-
tion. Later on, Alex had followed Herod Sayle to
London. He had already been responsible for the
deaths of two of Sayle’s associates – Nadia Vole
and the disfigured servant Mr Grin – despite little
training and no experience. This was his first
mission. Even so, he had single-handedly
smashed the Stormbreaker operation. Sayle had

been lucky to escape, a few steps ahead of the
police.

25/621

KILL ALEX RIDER

It was what he deserved. Alex had interfered with
a Scorpia assignment and he would have cost the
organization at
five million pounds …
the final payment owed by Herod Sayle. Worse
than that, he would have damaged their interna-
tional reputation. The lesson had to be learnt.

least

There was a knock at the door. Yassen had
ordered room service. It wasn’t just easier to eat
inside the hotel, it was safer. Why make himself
a target when he didn’t need to?

“Leave it outside,” he called out. He spoke
English with no trace of a Russian accent. He
spoke French, German and Arabic equally well.

The room was almost dark now. Yassen’s din-
ner sat on a tray in the corridor, rapidly getting
cold. But still he did not move away from the
desk and the computer in front of him. He would
kill Alex Rider tomorrow morning. There was no
question of his disobeying orders. It didn’t matter

27/621

that the two of them were linked, that they were
connected in a way Alex couldn’t possibly know.

John Rider. Alex’s father.
Their code names. Hunter and Cossack.
Yassen couldn’t help himself. He reached into
his pocket and took out a car key, the sort that
had two remote control buttons to open and close
the doors. But this key did not belong to any car.
Yassen pressed the OPEN button twice and the
CLOSE button three times and a concealed
memory stick sprang out onto the palm of his
hand. He glanced at it briefly. He knew that it
was madness to carry it. He had been tempted to
destroy it many times. But every man has his
weakness and this was his. He opened the com-
puter again and inserted it.

The file required another password. He keyed
it in. And there it was on the screen in front of
him, not in English letters but in Cyrillic, the
Russian alphabet.

His personal diary. The story of his life.
He sat back and began to read.

ДОМА

HOME

“Yasha! We’ve run out of water. Go to the well!”
I can still hear my mother calling to me and it
is strange to think of myself as a fourteen-year-
old boy, a single child, growing up in a village
six hundred miles from Moscow.
I can see
myself, stick-thin with long, fair hair and blue
eyes that always look a little startled. Everyone
tells me that I am small for my age and they urge
me to eat more protein … as if I can ever get my
hands on anything that resembles fresh meat or
fish. I have not yet spent many hundreds of hours
working out and my muscles are undeveloped. I
am sprawled out in the living room, watching the
only television we have in the house. It’s a huge,
ugly box with a picture that often wavers and

30/621

trembles and there are hardly any channels to
choose from. To make things worse, the electri-
city supply is unreliable and you can be fairly
sure that the moment you get interested in a film
or a news programme, the image will suddenly
flicker and die and you’ll be left alone, sitting in
the dark. But whenever I can, I tune into a docu-
mentary, which I devour. It is my only window
onto the outside world.

I am describing Russia – about ten years be-
fore the end of the twentieth century. It is not so
long ago and yet it is already somewhere that no
longer exists. The changes that began in the main
cities became a tsunami that engulfed the entire
country, although they took their time reaching
the village where I lived. There was no running
water in any of the houses and so, three times a
day, I had to make my way down to the well with
a wooden harness over my shoulders and two
metal buckets dragging down my arms. I sound
like a peasant and a lot of the time I must have
looked like one, dressed in a baggy shirt with no

31/621

collar and a waistcoat. As a matter of fact, I had
one pair of American jeans, which had been sent
to me as a present from a relative in Moscow,
and I can still remember everyone staring at me
when I put
them on. Jeans! They were like
something from a distant planet. And my name
was Yasha, not Yassen. Quite by accident, it got
changed.

If I am going to explain what happened to me
and what I became, then I must begin here, in
Estrov. Nobody speaks of it any more. It is not on
the map. According to the Russian authorities, it
never existed. But I remember it well; a village of
about eighty wooden houses surrounded by farm-
land with a church, a shop, a police station, a
bathhouse and a river that was bright blue in the
summer but freezing all year round. A single
road ran through the middle of the village but it
was hardly needed, as there were very few cars.
Our neighbour, Mr Vladimov, had a tractor
which often rumbled past, billowing oily, black
smoke, but I was more used to being woken up

32/621

by the sound of horses’ hooves. The village was
wedged between thick forest
in the north and
hills to the south and west so that the view never
really changed. Sometimes I would see planes
flying overhead and I thought of the people in-
side them,
travelling to the other side of the
world. If I was working in the garden, I would
stand still and watch them – the wings blinking,
the sunlight glinting on their metal skin – until
they had gone out of sight, leaving only the echo
of their engines behind. They reminded of me
who and what I was. Estrov was my world and I
certainly didn’t need an aeroplane to get from
one side to the other.

My own home, where I lived with my parents,
was small and simple, made of painted wooden
boards with shutters on either side of the win-
dows and a weather vane that squeaked all night
if there was too much wind. It was quite close to
the church, set back from the main road with sim-
ilar houses on either side. Flowers and brambles
grew right beside the walls and were slowly

33/621

creeping towards the roof. There were just four
rooms. My parents slept upstairs. I had a room at
the back but I had to share it whenever anyone
came to stay. My grandmother, who lived with
us, had the room next to mine but she preferred
to sleep in a sort of hole in the wall, above the
stove, in the kitchen. She was a very small, dark
brown woman and when I was young, I used to
think that she had been cooked by the flames.

There was no railway station in Estrov. It was
not considered important enough. Nor was there
a bus service or anything like that. I went to
school in a slightly larger village that liked to
think of itself as a town, two miles away down a
track that was dusty and full of potholes in the
summer, and thick with mud or covered in snow
during the winter. The town was called Rosna. I
walked there every day, no matter what
the
weather, and I was beaten if I was late. My
school was a big, square, brick building on three
floors. All the classrooms were the same size.
There were about five hundred children in all,

34/621

boys and girls. Some of them travelled in by
train, pouring out onto the platform with eyes
that were still half-closed with sleep. Rosna did
have a railway station and they were very proud
of it, decking it with flowers on public holidays.
But actually it was a mean, run-down little place
and nine out of ten trains didn’t even bother to
stop there.

We students were all very smart. The girls
wore black dresses with green aprons and had
their hair
tied back with ribbons. The boys
looked like little soldiers, with grey uniforms and
red scarves tied around our neck, and if we did
well with our studies, we were given badges with
slogans – “For Active Work”, “School Leader”,
that sort of thing. I don’t really remember much
of what I learned at school. Who does? History
was important … the history of Russia, of course.
We were always learning poems by heart and had
to recite them, standing to attention beside our
desks. There was maths and science. Most of the
teachers were women but our headmaster was a

35/621

man called Lavrov and he had a furious temper.
He was short but he had huge shoulders and long
arms, and I would often see him pick up a boy by
the throat and pin him against the wall.

“You’re not doing well, Leo Tretyakov!” he
would boom. “I’m sick of the sight of you. Buck
up your ideas or get out of here!”

Even the teachers were terrified of him. But
actually, he was a good man at heart. In Russia,
we were brought up to respect our teachers and it
never occurred to me that his titanic rages were
anything unusual.

I was very happy at school and I did well. We
had a star system – every two weeks the teachers
gave us a grade – and I was always a five-star
student, what we called a pyatiorka. My best sub-
jects were physics and maths, and these were
very important
to the Russian authorities.
Nobody ever let you forget that we were the
country that had sent the first man – Yuri Gargar-
in – into space. There was even a photograph of
him in the front entrance and you were supposed

36/621

to salute him as you came in. I was also good at
sport and I remember how the girls in my class
used to come along and cheer me when I scored a
goal. I wasn’t all that interested in girls at this
time, which is to say I was happy to chat to them
but I didn’t particularly want to hang out with
them after school. My best friend was the Leo
that I just mentioned and the two of us were
inseparable.

Leo Tretyakov was short and skinny with jut-
ting out ears, freckles and ginger hair. He used to
joke that he was the ugliest boy in the district and
I found it hard to disagree. He was also far from
bright. He was a two-star student, a dismal
dvoyka and he was always getting into trouble
with the teachers. In the end they actually gave
up punishing him because it didn’t seem to make
any difference and he just sat there quietly day-
dreaming at the back of the class. But at the same
time he was the star of our NVP – military train-
ing – classes which were compulsory throughout
the school. Leo could strip down an AK47

37/621

automatic machine gun in twelve seconds and re-
assemble it in fifteen. He was a great shot. And
twice a year there were military games, when we
had to compete with other schools using a map
and a compass to find our way through the
woods. Leo was always in charge. And we al-
ways won.

always made me

I liked Leo because he was afraid of nothing
and he
laugh. We did
everything together. We would eat our sand-
wiches in the yard, washed down with a gulp of
vodka that he had stolen from home and brought
to school in one of his mother’s old perfume
bottles. We smoked cigarettes in the woodland
close to the main building, coughing horribly be-
cause the tobacco was so rough. Our school toi-
lets had no compartments and we often sat next
to each other doing what we had to do, which
may sound disgusting but that was the way it
was. You were meant to bring your own toilet pa-
per too, but Leo always forgot and I would watch
him guiltily tearing pages out of his exercise

38/621

books. He was always losing his homework that
way. But with Leo’s homework – and he’d have
been the first to admit it – that was probably all it
was worth.

The best time we had together was in the sum-
mer, when we would go for endless bicycle rides,
rattling along the country roads, shooting down
hills and pedalling backwards furiously, which
was the only way to stop. Everyone had exactly
the same model of bicycle and they were all
death traps with no suspension, no lights and no
brakes. We had nowhere to go but in a way that
was the fun of it. We used our imagination to cre-
ate a world of wolves and vampires, ghosts and
Cossack warriors – and we chased each other
right through the middle of them. When we fi-
nally got back to the village, we would swim in
the river, even though there were parasites in the
water that could make you sick, and we always
went to the bathhouse together, thrashing each
other with birch leaves in the steam room which
was meant to be good for your skin.

39/621

Leo’s parents worked in the same factory as
mine, although my father, who had once studied
at Moscow State University, was the more senior
of the two. The factory employed about two hun-
dred people, who were collected by coaches from
Estrov, Rosna and lots of other places. I have to
say, the place was a source of constant puzzle-
ment to me. Why was it tucked away in the
middle of nowhere? Why had I never seen it?
There was a barbed wire fence surrounding it and
armed militia standing at the gate, and that didn’t
make sense either. All it produced was pesticides
and other chemicals used by farmers. But when I
asked my parents about it, they always changed
the subject. Leo’s father was the transportation
manager, in charge of the coaches. My father was
a research chemist. My mother worked in the
main office doing paperwork. That was about as
much as I knew.

At the end of a summer afternoon, Leo and
I would often sit close to the river and we would
talk about our future. The truth was that just

40/621

about everyone wanted to leave Estrov. Outside
work, there was nothing to do and half the people
who lived there were perpetually drunk. I’m not
making it up. During the winter months, they
weren’t allowed to open the village shop before
ten o’clock in the morning or people would rush
in as soon as it was light to buy their vodka; and
during December and January, it wasn’t unusual
to see some of the local farmers flat on their
backs, half covered with snow and probably half
dead too after downing a whole bottle. We were
all being left behind in a fast-changing world.
Why my parents had ever chosen to come here
was another mystery.

Leo didn’t care if he ended up working in the
factory like everyone else but I had other ambi-
tions. For reasons that I couldn’t explain, I’d al-
ways thought that I was different from everyone
else. Maybe it was the fact that my father had
once been a professor in a big university and that
he had himself experienced life outside the vil-
lage. But when I was watching those planes

disappear into the distance, I always thought they
were trying to tell me something. I could be on
one of them. There was a whole life outside
Estrov that I might one day explore.

Although I had never told anyone else except
Leo, I dreamt of becoming a helicopter pilot –
maybe in the army but if not, in air-sea rescue. I
had seen a programme about it on television and
for some reason it had caught hold of my imagin-
ation. I devoured everything I could about heli-
copters. I borrowed books from the school lib-
rary. I cut out articles in magazines. By the time I
was thirteen, I knew the name of almost every
moving part of a helicopter. I knew how it used
all the different forces and controls, working in
opposition to each other to fly. The only thing I
had never done was sit in one.

41/621

“Do you think you’ll ever leave?” Leo asked
me one evening, the two of us sprawled out in the
long grass, sharing a cigarette. “Go and live in a
city with your own flat and a car?”
“How am I supposed to do that?”

how to become a pilot.”

I shook my head. Leo was my best friend.
Whatever I might secretly think, I would never
talk about the two of us being apart. “I don’t
think my parents would let me. Anyway, why
would I want to leave? This is my home.”

the muddy track that

“Estrov is a dump.”
“No, it’s not.” I looked at the river, the fast-
flowing water chasing over the rocks, the sur-
rounding woodland,
led
through the centre of the village. In the distance,
I could see the steeple of St Nicholas. The village
had no priest. The church was closed; but its
shadow stretched out almost to our front door and
I had always thought of it as part of my child-
hood. Maybe Leo was right. There wasn’t very
much to the place, but even so, it was my home.
“I’m happy here,” I said and at that moment I be-
lieved it. “It’s not such a bad place.”

“You’re clever. You can go to Moscow. Learn

42/621

I remember saying those words. I can still
coming from a bonfire

smoke

the

smell

43/621

somewhere on the other side of the village. I can
hear the water rippling. I see Leo, twirling a
piece of grass between his fingers. Our bicycles
are lying, one on top of the other. There are a few
puffs of cloud in the sky, floating lazily past. A
fish suddenly breaks the surface of the river and I
see its scales glimmer silver in the sunlight. It is a
warm afternoon at the start of October. And in
twenty-four hours everything will have changed.
Estrov will no longer exist.

When I got home, my mother was already
making the dinner. Food was a constant subject
of conversation in our village because there was
so little of it and everyone grew their own. We
were lucky. As well as a vegetable patch, we had
a dozen chickens, which were all good layers so
(unless the neighbours crept in and stole them)
we always had plenty of eggs. She was making a
stew with potatoes, turnips and tinned tomatoes
that had turned up the week before in the shop
and that had sold out instantly. It was exactly the
same meal as we’d had the night before. She

44/621

would serve it with slabs of black bread and, of
course, small
tumblers of vodka. I had been
drinking vodka since I was nine years old.

My mother was a slender woman with bright
blue eyes and hair which must have once been as
blond as mine but which was already grey, even
though she was only in her thirties. She wore it
tied back so that I could see the curve of her
neck. She was always pleased to see me and she
always took my side. There was that time, for ex-
ample, when Leo and I were almost arrested for
letting off bombs outside the police station. We
had got up at first light and dug holes in the
ground which we’d filled up with drawing pins
and the gunpowder stripped from about five hun-
dred matches. Then we’d sneaked behind the
wall of the churchyard and watched. It was two
hours before the first police car drove over our
booby trap and set it off. There was a bang. The
front tyre was shredded and the car lost control
and drove through a bush. The two of us nearly
died laughing, but I wasn’t so happy when I got

45/621

home and found Yelchin, the police chief, in my
front room. He asked me where I’d been and
when I said I’d been running an errand for my
mother, she backed me up, even though she knew
I was lying. Later on, she scolded me but I know
that she was secretly amused.

In our household, my mother and my grand-
mother did most of the talking. My father was a
very thoughtful man who looked exactly like the
scientist that he was, with greying hair, a serious
sort of face and glasses. He lived in Estrov but
his heart was still in Moscow. He kept all his old
books around him and when letters came from
the city, he would disappear to read them and at
dinner he would be miles away. Why did I never
question him more? I ask myself that now but I
suppose nobody ever does. When you are young,
you accept your parents for what they are and
you believe the stories they tell you.

Conversation at dinner was often difficult be-
cause my parents didn’t like to discuss their work
at the factory and there was only so much I could

tell them about my day at school. As for my
grandmother, she had somehow got stuck in the
past, twenty years ago, and much of what she
said didn’t connect with reality at all. But that
night was different. Apparently there had been an
accident, a fire at the factory … nothing serious.
My father was worried and for once he spoke his
mind.

“It’s these new investors,” he said. “All they
think about is money. They want to increase pro-
duction and to hell with safety measures. Today
it was just the generator plant. But suppose it had
been one of the laboratories?”

46/621

“You should talk to them,” my mother said.
“They won’t listen to me. They’re pulling the
strings from Moscow and they’ve got no idea.”
He threw back his vodka and swallowed it in one
gulp. “That’s the new Russia for you, Eva. We all
get wiped out and as long as they get
their
cheque, they don’t give a damn.”

This all struck me as insane. There couldn’t be
any real danger, not here in Estrov. How could

the production of fertilizers and pesticides do
anyone any harm?

My mother seemed to agree. “You worry too

47/621

much,” she said.

“We should never have gone along with this.
We should never have been part of it.” My father
refilled his glass. He didn’t drink as much as a lot
of the people in the village but, like them, he
used vodka to draw down the shutters between
him and the rest of the world. “The sooner we get
out of here, the better. We’ve been here long
enough.”

“The swans are back,” my grandmother said.

“They’re so beautiful at this time of the year.”

There were no swans in the village. As far as

I knew, there never had been.

“Are we really going to leave?” I asked. “Can

we go and live in Moscow?”

My mother reached out and put her hand on
mine. “Maybe one day, Yasha. And you can go
to university, just like your father. But you have
to work hard…”

48/621

The next day was a Sunday and I had no
school. On the other hand,
the factory never
closed and both my parents had drawn the week-
end shift, working until four and leaving me to
clean the house and take my grandmother her
lunch. Leo looked in after breakfast but we both
had a lot of homework, so we agreed to meet
down at the river at six and perhaps kick a ball
around with some other boys. Just before midday
I was lying on my bed, trying to plough my way
through a chapter of Crime and Punishment,
which was this huge Russian masterpiece we
were all supposed to read. As Leo had said to me,
none of us knew what our crime was, but reading
the book was certainly a punishment. The story
had begun with a murder but since then nothing
had happened and there were about six hundred
pages to go.

Anyway, I was lying there with my head close
to the window, allowing the sun to slant in onto
the pages. It was a very quiet morning. Even the
chickens seemed to have abandoned their usual

49/621

clucking and I was aware of only the ticks of the
watch on my left wrist. It was a Pobeda with
black numerals on a white face and fifteen jewels
that had been made just after the Second World
War and that had once belonged to my grandfath-
er. I never took it off and over the years it had be-
come part of me. I glanced at it and noticed the
time: five minutes past
twelve. And that was
when I heard the explosion. Actually, I wasn’t
even sure it was an explosion. It sounded more
like a paper bag being crumpled somewhere out
of sight. I climbed off the bed and went and
looked out of the open window. A few people
were walking across the fields but otherwise
there was nothing to see. I returned to the book.
How could I have so quickly forgotten my par-
ents’ conversation from the night before?

I read another thirty pages. I suppose half an
hour must have passed. And then I heard another
sound – soft and far away but unmistakable all
the same. It was gunfire, the sound of an auto-
matic weapon
emptied. That was

being

50/621

impossible. People went hunting in the woods
sometimes, but not with machine guns, and there
had never been any army exercises in the area. I
looked out of the window a second time and saw
smoke rising into the air on the other side of the
hills to the south of Estrov. That was when I
knew that none of this was my imagination. So-
mething had happened. The smoke was coming
from the factory.

I leapt off the bed, dropping the book, and ran
down the stairs and out of the house. The village
was completely deserted. Our chickens were
strutting around on the front lawn of our house,
pecking at the grass. There was a dog barking
somewhere. Everything was ridiculously normal.
But then I heard footsteps and looked up. Mr
Vladimov, our neighbour, was running down
from his front door, wiping his hands on a cloth.
“Mr Vladimov!” I called out to him. “What’s

happened?”

“I don’t know,” he wheezed back. He had
probably been working on his tractor. He was

covered in oil. “They’ve all gone to see. I’m go-
ing with them.”

“What do you mean … all of them?”
“The whole village! There’s been some sort of

51/621

accident!”

Before I could ask any more, he had disap-

peared down the muddy track.

He had no sooner gone than the alarm went
off. It was extraordinary, deafening, like nothing
I had ever heard before. It couldn’t have been
more urgent if war had broken out. And as the
noise of it resounded in my head, I realized that it
had to be coming from the factory, more than a
mile away! How could it be so loud? Even the
fire alarm at school had been nothing like this. It
was a high-pitched siren that seemed to spread
out from a single point until it was everywhere –
behind the forest, over the hills, in the sky – and
yet at the same time it was right next to me, in
front of my house. I knew now that there had
been another accident. I had heard it, of course,

52/621

the explosion. But that had been half an hour ago.
Why had they been so slow to raise the alarm?

The siren stopped. And in the sudden silence,
the countryside, the village where I had spent my
entire life, seemed to have become photographs
of themselves and it was as if I was on the out-
side looking in. There was nobody around me.
The dog had stopped barking. The chickens had
scattered.

I heard the sound of an engine. A car came
hurtling towards me, bumping over the track. The
first thing I registered was that it was a black
Lada. Then I took in the bullet holes all over the
bodywork and the fact that the front windscreen
was shattered. But it was only when it stopped
that I saw the shocking truth.

My father was in the front seat. My mother

was behind the wheel.

КPOКOДИЛЫ

CROCODILES

I didn’t even know my mother could drive. We
hardly ever saw any cars in Estrov because
nobody could afford to buy one, and anyway,
there wasn’t anywhere to go. The black Lada
probably belonged to one of the senior managers.
Not that I was thinking about these things just
then. The driver’s door opened and my mother
got out. Straight away, I saw the fear in her eyes.
She raised a hand in my direction, urging me to
stay where I was, then ran round to the other side
and helped my father out. He was wearing a
loose white coat that flapped over his normal
clothes, and I saw with a sense of horror that was
like a pool of black water, sucking me in, that he
had been hurt. The fabric was covered with his

55/621

blood. His left arm hung limp. He was clutching
his chest with his right hand. His face looked thin
and pale and his eyes were empty, clouded by
pain. My mother had her arm around him, help-
ing him to walk. She at least had not been hurt
but she still looked like someone who had es-
caped from a war zone. There were streaks run-
ning down her face. Her hair was wild. No boy
should ever see his parents in this way. It is not
natural. Everything I had always believed and
taken for granted was instantly smashed.

The two of them reached me. My father could
go no further and sank to the ground, resting his
back against our garden fence. And all the time
I had said nothing. There were a million ques-
tions I wanted to ask but the words simply would
not reach my lips. Time seemed to have fragmen-
ted. The first explosion,
the gunfire and the
smoke, going downstairs, seeing the car … they
were like four separate incidents that could have
taken place years apart. I needed them to explain

it for me. Somehow, perhaps, they could make it
all make sense.

“Yasha!” My father was the first to speak and
it didn’t sound like him at all. The pain was dis-
torting his voice.

“What’s happened? What is it? Who hurt you?
You’ve been shot!” Once I had begun to speak I
could barely stop, but I was making little sense.

My father reached out and grabbed hold of my
arm. “I am so glad you’re here. I was afraid
you’d be out of the house. But you have to listen
to us very carefully, Yasha. We have very little
time.”

56/621

“Yasha, my dear boy…” It was my mother
who had spoken and suddenly there were tears
coursing down her cheeks. It didn’t matter what
had happened at the factory. It was seeing me
that had made her cry.

“I will try to explain to you,” my father said.
“But you can’t argue with me. Do you under-
stand that? You have to leave the village
immediately.”

“What? I’m not

leaving!

I’m not going

57/621

anywhere.”

“You have no choice. If you stay here, they’ll
kill you.” His grip on me tightened. “They’re
already on their way. Do you understand? They’ll
be here. Very soon.”

“Who? Why?”
My father was too weak, in too much pain to

say anything more, so my mother took over.

“We never told you about the factory,” she
said. “We weren’t allowed to. But it wasn’t just
that. We didn’t want you to know. We were
ashamed.” She wiped her eyes, pulling herself to-
gether. “We were making chemicals and pesti-
cides for farmers, like we always said. But we
were also making other things. For the military.”
“Chemical
weapons. Do you understand what I mean?” I
said nothing so he went on. “We had no choice,
Yasha. Your mother and I got into trouble with
the authorities a long time ago, when we were in
Moscow, and we were sent out here. That was

“Weapons,” my

father

said.

before you were born. It was all my fault. They
stopped us from teaching. They threatened us.
We had to earn a living and there was no other
way.”

58/621

The words were like a stampede of horses gal-
loping through my head. I wanted them to stop,
to slow down. Surely all that mattered was to get
help for my father. The nearest hospital was
miles away but there was a doctor in Rosna. It
seemed to me that my father was getting weaker
and that the blood was spreading.

But still they went on. “This morning there
was an accident
in the main laboratory,” my
mother explained. “And something was released
into the air. We had already warned them it might
happen. You heard us talking about it only last
night. But they wouldn’t listen. Making a profit
was all that mattered to them. Well, it’s over
now. The whole village has been contaminated.
We have been contaminated. We brought it with
us in that car. Not that it would have made any
difference. It’s in the air. It’s everywhere.”

59/621

“What is? What are you talking about?”
“A form of anthrax.” My mother spat out the
words. “It’s a sort of bacterium but it’s been
modified so that it’s very contagious and acts
very quickly. It could wipe out an army! And
maybe we deserve this. We were responsible. We
helped to make it…”

“Do it!” my father said. “Do it now!” With his
free hand, he fumbled in his pocket and took out
a metal box, about fifteen centimetres long. It
was the sort of thing that might contain a pen.

first

My mother took it. Her eyes were still fixed on
me. “As soon as we knew what had happened,
our
thoughts were for you,” she said.
“Nobody was allowed to leave the factory. That
was the protocol. They had to keep us there, to
contain us. But your father and I had already
made plans … just in case. We stole a car and we
smashed through the perimeter fence. We had to
reach you.”

“The siren…?”

60/621

“That was nothing to do with the accident.
They set it off afterwards. They saw we were try-
ing to escape.” She drew a breath. “The guards
fired machine guns at us and they sounded the
alarm. Your
father was hit. We were so
frightened we wouldn’t be able to find you, that
you wouldn’t be at the house…”

“Thank God you’re here!” my father said. He
was still holding onto me. He was breathing with
difficulty.

My mother opened the box. I didn’t know
what would be inside or why it was so important
but when I looked down, I saw that it contained
the last thing I had expected. There was some
grey velvet padding and in the middle of that, a
hypodermic syringe.

“For every weapon there has to be a defence,”
my mother went on. “We made a poison but we
were also working on an antidote. This is it,
Yasha. There was only a tiny amount of it but we
stole it and we brought it to you. It will protect
you…”

61/621

“No. I don’t want it! You have it!”
“There isn’t enough for us. This is all we
have.” My father’s hand had tightened on my
arm, pinning me down. He was using the very
last of his strength. “Do it, Eva,” he insisted.

tapping it with her

My mother was holding the syringe up to the
light,
finger, examining
the glass vial. She pressed the plunger with her
thumb so that a bead of liquid appeared at the end
of the needle. I began to struggle. I couldn’t be-
lieve that she was about to inject me.

My father wouldn’t let me move. As weak as
he was, he kept me still while my mother closed
in on me. It must be every child’s nightmare to
be attacked by his own parents and at that mo-
ment I forgot that everything they were doing
was for my own good. They were saving me, not
killing me, but that wasn’t how it seemed to me. I
can still see my mother’s face, the cold determin-
ation as she brought the needle plunging down.
She didn’t even bother to roll up my shirt sleeve.
The point went through the material and into my

62/621

arm. It hurt. I think I actually felt the liquid, the
antidote, coursing into my bloodstream. She
pulled out the needle and dropped the empty hy-
podermic onto the ground. I looked down and
saw more blood, my own, forming a circle on my
sleeve.

My father let go of me. My mother closed her
eyes for a moment. When she opened them again,
she was smiling. “Yasha, my dearest,” she said.
“We don’t mind what happens to us. Can you un-
derstand that? Right now, you’re all we care
about. You’re all that matters.”

The three of us stood there for a moment. We
were like actors in a play who had run out of
lines. We were breathless, shocked by the viol-
ence of what had taken place. It was like being in
some sort of waking dream. We were surrounded
by silence. Smoke was still rising slowly above
the hills. And the village was still completely
empty. There was nobody in sight.

It was my father who began again. “You have
to go into the house,” he said. “You need to take

63/621

some clothes with you and any food you can find.
Look in the kitchen cupboard and put it all in
your backpack. Get a torch and a compass. But,
most important of all, there is a metal box in the
kitchen. You know where it is … beside the fire.
Bring it out to me.” I hesitated so he went on,
putting all his authority into his voice. “If you are
not out of the village in five minutes, Yasha, you
will die with us. Even with the antidote. The gov-
ernment will not allow anyone to tell what has
happened here. They will hunt you down and
they will kill you. If you want to live, you must
do as we say.”

Did I want to live? Right then, I wasn’t even
sure. But I knew that I couldn’t let my parents
down, not after everything they had done to reach
me. Not daring to speak, my mother silently im-
plored me. I could feel my throat burning – I
reeled away and staggered into the house. My
father was still sitting on the ground with his legs
stretched out in front of him. Looking back, I saw
my mother go over and kneel beside him.

64/621

Almost tripping over myself, I ran across the
garden and through the front door. I went straight
up to my bedroom and, in a daze, pulled out the
uniform I had worn on camping trips with the
Young Pioneers, our Russian scouting organiza-
tion. I had been given a dark green anorak and
waterproof trousers. I wasn’t sure whether to
carry them or to wear them, but in the end I
pulled them on over my ordinary clothes. I
quickly put on my leather boots, which were still
covered in dried mud and took my backpack, a
torch and a compass from under the bed. I looked
around me, at the pictures on the wall – a football
club, various helicopters, a photograph of the
world taken from outer space. The book that I
had been reading was on the floor. My school
clothes were folded on a chair. I could not accept
that I was leaving all this behind, that I would
never see any of it again.

I went downstairs. Every house in the village
had its own special hiding place and ours was in
the wall beside the stove. There were two loose

bricks and I pulled them out to reveal a hollow
opening with a tin box inside. I grabbed it and
took it with me. As I straightened up, I noticed
my grandmother, still standing at the sink, peel-
ing potatoes, with her apron tied tightly around
her waist.

She beamed at me. “I can’t remember when
there’s been a better harvest,” she said. She had
absolutely no idea what was going on.

65/621

I went over to a cupboard and shoved some
tins, tea, sugar, a box of matches and two bars of
chocolate into my backpack. I filled a glass with
water I had taken from the well. Finally, I kissed
my grandmother quickly on the side of the head
and hurried out, leaving her to her work.

The sky had darkened while I was in the
house. How could that have happened? It had
only been a few minutes, surely? But now it
looked as though it was going to rain, perhaps
one of those violent downpours we often had dur-
ing the months leading up to winter. My father
was sitting where I had left him and seemed to be

66/621

asleep. His hand was clutched across the wound
in his chest. I wanted to carry the tin box over to
him but my mother moved round and stood in my
way. I held out the glass of water.

“I got this. For Father.”
“That’s good of you, Yasha. But he doesn’t

need it.”

“But…”
“No, Yasha. Try to understand.”
It took a few moments for the significance of
what she was saying to sink in and at once a trap-
door opened and I plunged through it, into a
world of pain.

My mother took the box and lifted the lid. In-
side there was a roll of banknotes – a hundred
rubles, more money than I had ever seen. My
parents must have been saving it from their salar-
ies, planning for the day when they returned to
Moscow. But that wasn’t going to happen, not
now. She gave it all to me along with my internal
passport, a document that everyone in Russia was
required to own, even if you didn’t travel. Finally

she took out a small, black velvet bag and handed
it to me too.

“That is everything, Yasha,” she said. “You

67/621

have to go.”

“Mother…” I began. I felt huge tears swell up
in my eyes and the burning in my throat was
worse than ever.

“You heard what your father said. Now, listen
very carefully. You have to go to Moscow. I
know it’s a long way away and you’ve never
travelled on your own but you can make it. You
can take the train. Not from Rosna. They’ll be
checking everyone at the station. Go to Kirsk.
You can reach it through the forest. That’s the
safest way. Find the new highway and follow it.
Do you understand?”

I nodded, miserably.
“You remember Kirsk. You’ve been there a
few times. There’s a station with trains every day
to Moscow … one in the morning, one in the
evening. Take the evening train, when it’s dark.
If anyone asks you, say you’re visiting an uncle.

Never tell anyone you came from Estrov. Never
use that word again. Promise me that.”

“Where will I go in Moscow?” I asked. I didn’t

68/621

want to leave. I wanted to stay with her.

She reached out and took me in her arms, hug-
ging me against her. “Don’t be scared, Yasha.
We have a good friend in Moscow. He’s a bio-
logy professor. He worked with your father and
you’ll find him at the university. His name is
Misha Dementyev. I’ll try to telephone him but I
expect they’ll have cut the lines. It doesn’t mat-
ter. When you tell him who you are, he’ll look
after you.”

Misha Dementyev. I clung onto the two words,

my only lifeline.

My mother was still embracing me. I was
looking at the curve of her neck, smelling her
scent for the last time. “Why can’t you come with
me?” I sobbed.

“It would do no good. I’m infected. I want to
stay with your father. But it’s not so bad, know-
ing you’ve got away.” She moved me away from

her, still holding me, looking straight into my
eyes. “Now, you have to be brave. You have to
leave. Don’t look back. Don’t let anyone stop
you.”

“Mother…”
“I love you, my dear son. Now go!”
If I’d spoken to her again, I wouldn’t have
been able to leave her. I knew that. We both did.
I broke away. I ran.

69/621

The forest was on the other side of the house,
to the north and spreading to the east of Estrov. It
stretched on for about thirty miles, mainly pine
trees but also linden, birch and spruce. It was a
dark, tangled place and none of us ever went into
it, partly because we were afraid of getting lost
but also because there were rumoured to be
wolves around, particularly in the winter. But
somewhere inside me I knew my mother was
right. If there were police or soldiers in the area,
they would concentrate on the main road. I would
be safer out of sight. The highway that she’d

mentioned cut through the forest and they were
laying a new water pipe alongside it.

To begin with, I followed the track that wound
through the gardens, trying to keep out of sight,
although there was nobody around. In the dis-
tance, I saw a boy I knew, cycling past with a
bundle under his arm, but he was alone. I passed
the village shop. It was closed. I continued
through the allotments where the villagers grew
their own food and stole everyone else’s. I was
already hot, wearing a double set of clothes, and
the air was suddenly warm and thick. The clouds
were grey and swollen, rolling in from every
side. It was definitely going to rain.

70/621

I still wasn’t sure I was going to do what my
mother had told me. Did she really think I could
so easily run off and leave her on her own with
my father lying dead beside the fence? No matter
what had happened at the factory, and whatever
she had said, I couldn’t just abandon her. I would
wait a few hours in the forest and see what
happened. And then, once it was dark, I would

71/621

return. She had talked about a weapon – anthrax.
She had said the whole village was contaminated.
But I refused to believe her. I was even angry
with her for telling me these things. In truth, I do
not think I was actually in my right mind.

And then I saw someone ahead of me, crouch-
ing down with their bottom in the air, pulling ve-
getables out of the ground. Even from this angle,
I recognized him at once. It was Leo. He had
been working on his family’s vegetable patch,
probably as a punishment for doing something
wrong. He had two younger brothers and
whenever any of them fought, their father would
take a belt to them and they would end up either
mending fences or gardening. He was covered in
mud with a bunch of very wrinkled carrots
dangling from his hand, but seeing me approach,
he broke into a grin.

“Hey, Yasha!” he called out. He did a double
take, noticing my Pioneers clothes. “What are
you doing?”

72/621

“Leo…” I was so glad to see him but I didn’t
know what to say. How could I explain what had
just happened?

“Did you hear the siren?” he said. “And there
was shooting. I think something’s happened over
at the factory.”

“Where are your parents?” I asked.
“Dad’s working. Mum’s at home.”
“Leo, you have to come with me.” The words
came rushing out. I hadn’t planned to ask him
along but suddenly it was the most important
thing in the world. I couldn’t leave without him.

“Where are you going?” He lowered the car-
rots and stood there with his legs slightly apart,
one hand on his hip, his boots reaching up to his
thighs. For a moment he looked like one of those
old posters, the sort they had printed to get the
peasants to work in the fields. He gave me a
crooked smile. “What’s
the matter, Yasha?
What’s wrong?”

“My dad’s dead,” I said.
“What?”

Hadn’t he understood anything? Hadn’t he
realized that something was wrong? But that was
Leo for you. Explosions, gun shots, alarms …
and he would just carry on weeding.

73/621

“He’s been shot,” I said. “That was what the
siren was about. It was him. They tried to stop
him leaving. But he told me I have to go away
and hide. Something terrible has happened at the
factory.” I was pleading with him. “Please, Leo.
Come with me.”

“I can’t…”
He was going to argue. No matter what I told
him, he would never have abandoned his family.
But
then we became aware of a sound,
something that neither of us had ever heard be-
fore. At the same time, we felt a slight pulsing in
the air, beating against our skin. We looked
round and saw five black dots in the sky, swoop-
ing low over the hills, heading towards the vil-
lage. They were military helicopters, just like the
ones in the pictures in my room. They were still
too far away to see properly but they were lined

just

74/621

up in precise battle formation. It was that exact-
ness that made them so menacing. Somehow I
was certain that they weren’t going to land. They
weren’t going to disgorge doctors and technicians
who had come to help us. My parents had warned
me that people were coming to Estrov to kill me
and I had no doubt at all that they had arrived.

“Leo! Come on! Now!”
There must have been something in my voice,
or perhaps it was the sight of the helicopters
themselves, but this time Leo dropped his carrots
and obeyed. Together, without a single thought,
we began to run up the slope, away from the vil-
lage. The edge of the forest, an endless line of
thick trunks, branches, pine needles and shadows,
stretched out before us. We were still about fifty
metres away and now I found that my legs
wouldn’t work, that the soft mud was deliberately
dragging me down. Behind me, the sound of the
helicopters was getting louder. I didn’t dare turn
round but I could feel them getting closer and
closer. And then – another shock – the bells of St

Nicholas began to ring, the sound echoing over
the rooftops. The church was empty. I had never
heard the bells before.

I was sweating. My whole body felt as if it
were trapped inside an oven. Something hit me
on the shoulder and for a crazy moment I thought
one of the helicopters had fired a bullet. But it
was nothing more than a fat raindrop. The storm
was about to break.

75/621

“Yasha!”
We stopped at the very edge of the forest and
turned round just in time to see the helicopters
deliver their first payload. They fired five mis-
siles, one after the other. But they didn’t hit any-
thing … not like in an old war film. The pilots
hadn’t actually been aiming at any particular
buildings. The missiles exploded randomly – in
lanes, in peoples’ gardens – but the destruction
was much, much worse than anything I could
have imagined. Huge fireballs erupted at
the
point of impact, spreading out instantly so that
they joined up with one another, wiping out

everything they touched. The flames were a bril-
liant orange; fiercer and more intense than any
fire I had ever seen. They devoured my entire
world, burning up the houses, the walls, the trees,
the roads, the very soil. Nothing that touched
those flames could possibly survive. The first
five missiles wiped out almost the entire village
but they were followed by five more and then an-
other five. We could feel the heat reaching out to
us, so intense that even though we were some
distance from it, our eyes watered and we had to
look away. I put up my hand to protect my face
and felt the back of my fingers burn. In seconds,
Estrov, the village where I had spent my entire
life, was turned into hell. My father was already
dead but I had no doubt at all that my mother had
now joined him. And my grandmother. And
Leo’s mother and his brothers. It was impossible
to see his house through the curtain of fire but by
now it would be nothing more than ash.

The helicopters were continuing, heading to-
I

wards us. Now that

76/621

they were

closer,

77/621

recognized them at once. They were Mil Mi-24s,
sometimes known as Crocodiles, developed for
the Russian military for both missile support and
troop movements. Each one could carry eight
men at speeds of over three hundred and fifty
miles per hour. As well as the main and the tail
rotors, the Mil had two wings stretching out of
the main fuselage, each one equipped with a mis-
sile launcher that dangled beneath it. I had never
seen anything that looked more deadly, more like
a giant bird with claws outstretched, swooping
out of the sky to snatch me up. They were getting
closer and closer. I could actually see the nearest
pilot, very low down in the glass bubble that was
the cockpit window. Where had he come from?
Had he once been a boy like me, dreaming of fly-
ing? How could he sit there and be responsible
for so much killing? And yet he was without
mercy. There could be no doubt at all that he was
aiming the next salvo at me. I swear I saw him
gazing straight at me as he fired. I saw the spurt
of flame as the missiles were fired.

78/621

Fortunately, they fell short. A wall of flame
erupted about thirty metres behind me. Even so,
the heat was so intense that Leo screamed. I
could smell the air burning. A cloud of chemicals
and smoke poured over us. It was only later that I
realized it must have briefly shielded us from the
pilot. Otherwise he would have fired again.

Leo and I plunged into the forest. The light
was cut out behind us. Instantly we were surroun-
ded by green, with leaves and branches every-
where and soft moss beneath our feet. We had
reached the top of the hill. The forest sloped
down on the other side and this proved our salva-
tion. We lost our footing and tumbled down,
rolling over roots and mud. It was already raining
harder. Water was dripping down and maybe that
helped us too. We were invisible. We were away
from the flames. As I fell, through the trees I
caught a glimpse of the red and black horror that
I had left behind. I heard the roar of helicopter
blades. Branches were whipping and shaking all
around me. Then I was at the very bottom of the

hollow. Leo was next to me, staring helplessly,
completely terrified. But we were protected by
the forest and by the earth. The helicopters could
not reach us.

Well, perhaps the pilots could have tried again.
Maybe they had exhausted their missile supply.
Maybe they didn’t think it was worth wasting
more of their ammunition on two small boys. But
even as I lay there I knew that this wasn’t over.
They had seen us and they would radio ahead.
Others would come to finish the work. It wasn’t
enough that the village had been destroyed. If
anybody had managed to survive, they would
have to be killed. There must be nobody left to
tell what had happened.

“Yasha…” Leo gasped. He was crying. His

79/621

face was a mess of mud and tears.

“We have to go,” I said.
We struggled to our feet and dropped into the
safety of the forest. Behind us, the sky was red,
the helicopters hovering as Estrov continued to
burn.

ЛЕС

THE FOREST

When I was a small boy, I had feared the forest
with its ghosts and its demons. It had given me
nightmares. My own parents had come from the
city and didn’t believe such things but Leo’s
mother used to tell me stories about it, the same
stories that her mother had doubtless told her.
Every child in the village knew them and stayed
away. But now I wanted it to draw me in, to
swallow me up and never let me go. The deeper I
went, the safer I felt, surrounded by huge, solid
trunks that blotted out the sky and everything si-
lent except for the drip of the rain on the canopy
of leaves. The real nightmare was behind me. It
was almost impossible to think of my village and
the people who had lived there. Mr Vladimov

82/621

smoking his cigarettes until the stubs burnt his
fingers. Mrs Bek who ran the village shop and
put up with everyone’s complaints when there
was nothing on the shelves. The twins, Irina and
Olga, so alike that we could never tell them apart
but always arguing and at each other’s throats.
My grandmother. My parents. My friends. They
had all gone as if they had never existed and
nothing would remain of them, not even their
names.

Never tell anyone you came from Estrov.

Never use that word again.

My mother’s warning to me. And of course
she was right. The place of my birth had now be-
come a sentence of death.

I was in shock. So much had happened and it
had happened so quickly that my brain simply
wasn’t able to cope with it all. I had seen very
few American films, and computer games hadn’t
arrived in my corner of Russia yet – so the sort of
violence I had just experienced was completely
alien to me. Perhaps it was for the best. If I had

really considered my situation, I might easily
have gone mad. I was fourteen years old and sud-
denly I had nothing except a hundred rubles, the
clothes I was wearing and the name of a man I
had never met in a city I had never visited. My
best friend was with me but it was as if his soul
had flown out of him, leaving nothing but a shell
behind. He was no longer crying but he was
walking like a zombie. For the last hour, he had
said nothing. We had been walking in silence
with only the sound of our own footsteps and the
rain hitting the leaves.

It wasn’t over yet. We were both waiting for
the next attack. Maybe the helicopters would re-
turn and bomb the forest. Maybe they would use
poison gas next time. They knew we were here
and they wouldn’t let us get away.

83/621

“What was it all about, Yasha Gregorovich?”
Leo asked. He used my full name in the formal
way that we Russians do sometimes – when we
want to make a point or when we are afraid. His
face was puffy and I could see that his eyes were

84/621

bright with tears, although he was trying hard not
to cry in front of me.

“I don’t know,” I said. But that wasn’t true. I
knew only too well. “There was an accident at
the factory,” I went on. “Our parents lied to
us. They weren’t just making chemicals for farm-
ers. They were also making weapons. Something
went wrong and they had to close it down very
quickly.”

“The helicopters…”
“I suppose they didn’t want to tell anyone what
had happened. It’s like that place we learnt about.
You know… Chernobyl.”

We all knew about Chernobyl in Ukraine. Not
so long ago, when Russia was still part of the
Soviet Union, there had been a huge explosion at
a nuclear reactor. The whole area had been
covered with clouds of radioactive dust – they
had even reached parts of Europe. But at the
time, the authorities had done everything they
could to cover up what had happened. Even now
it was uncertain how many people had actually

85/621

died. That was the way the Russian government
worked back then. If they had admitted there had
been a catastrophe, it would have shown they
were weak. So it was easy to imagine what they
would do following an accident at a secret facil-
ity creating biological weapons. If a hundred or
even five hundred people were murdered, what
would it matter so long as things were kept quiet?
Leo was still trying to take it all in. It hurt me
seeing him like this. This was a boy who had
been afraid of nothing, who had been rude to all
the teachers and who had never complained when
he was beaten or sent on forced marches. But
it was as if he had become five years younger. He
was lost. “They killed everyone,” he said.

“They had to keep it a secret, Leo. My mother
and father managed to get out of the factory.
They told me to run away because they knew
what was going to happen.” My voice cracked.
“They’re both dead.”
“I’m sorry, Yasha.”
“Me too, Leo.”

86/621

He was my best friend. He was all that I had
left in the world. But I still wasn’t telling him the
whole truth. My arm was throbbing painfully and
I was sure that he must have noticed the blood-
stain on my sleeve but I hadn’t mentioned the
syringe. My mother had inoculated me with the
antidote against whatever had escaped into the
air. She had said it would protect me. No one had
done the same for Leo. Did that mean he was car-
rying the anthrax spores on him even now? Was
he dying? I didn’t want to think about it and,
coward that I was, I certainly couldn’t bring my-
self to talk to him about it.

We were still walking. The rain was getting
heavier. Now it was making its way through the
leaves and splashing down all around us. It was
early in the afternoon but most of the light had
gone. I had taken out my compass and given it to
Leo. I could have used it myself of course but I
thought it would be better for him to have his
mind occupied – and anyway, he was better at
finding directions than me. Not that the compass

really helped. Every time we came to a particu-
larly nasty knot of brambles or found a tangle of
undergrowth blocking our path, we had to go an-
other way. It was as if the forest itself was guid-
ing us. Where? If it was feeling merciful,
it
would lead us to safety. But it might be just as
likely to deliver us into our enemies’ hands.

The forest began to slope upwards, gently at
first, then more steeply, and we found our feet
kept slipping and we tripped over the roots. Leo
looked dreadful, his clothes plastered across him,
his face deadly white, his hair soaking wet now,
hanging lifelessly over his eyes. I felt guilty in
my waterproof clothes but it was too late to hand
them over. Ahead of us, the trees began to thin
out. This was doubly bad news. First, it meant
that we were even less protected from the rain. It
would also be easier to spot us from the air if the
helicopters returned.

87/621

“Over there!” I said.
I had seen an electricity pylon not

too far
away, poking out above the trees, part of the new

88/621

construction. They had been laying all three to-
gether – the new highway, the water pipe and
electricity – all part of the modernization of the
area, before the work had ground to a halt. But
even without tarmac or lighting, the road would
lead us straight to Kirsk. At least we knew which
way to go.

I had very little memory of Kirsk. The last
time I had been there had been about a year ago,
on a school trip. Getting out of Estrov had been
exciting enough but when we had got there we
had spent half the time in a museum, and by the
afternoon I was bored stiff. When I was twelve, I
had spent a week in Kirsk Hospital after I’d
broken my leg. I had been taken there by bus and
had no idea how to get around. But surely the sta-
tion wouldn’t be too difficult to find and at least I
would have enough money to buy two tickets for
the train. A hundred rubles was worth a great
deal. It was more than a month’s salary for one of
my teachers.

89/621

We trudged forward, making better progress.
We were beginning to think that we had got away
after all, that nobody was interested in us any
more. Of course it is just when you begin to think
like that, when you relax your guard, that the
worst happens. If I had been in the same situation
now, I would have gone anywhere except to-
wards the new highway. When you are in danger,
you must always opt for what is least expected.
Predictability kills.

We reached the first evidence of the construc-
tion; abandoned spools of wire, cement slabs,
great piles of plastic tubing. Ahead of us, a
brown ribbon of dug-up earth stretched out into
the gloom. The town of Kirsk and the railway to
Moscow lay at the other end.
“How far is it?” Leo asked.
“I don’t know,” I said. “About twenty miles,

I think. Are you OK?”

Leo nodded but the misery in his face told an-

other story.

“We can do it,” I said. “Five or six hours. And

90/621

it can’t rain for ever.”

It felt as if it was going to do just that. We
could actually see the raindrops now, fat and re-
lentless, slanting down in front of us and splatter-
ing on the ground. It was like a curtain hanging
between the trees and we could barely make out
the road on the other side. There were more pipes
scattered on both sides and after a short while we
came to a deep ditch which must have been cut as
part of the water project. Was it really possible
for an entire community to near the end of the
twentieth century without running water? I had
carried enough buckets down to the well to know
the answer to that.

We walked for another ten minutes, neither of
us speaking, our feet splashing in the puddles,
and then we saw them. They were ahead of us, a
long line of soldiers, spread out across the forest,
making steady progress towards us … like de-
tectives looking for clues after a murder. They
were spaced so that nobody would be able to pass

91/621

through the line without being seen. They had no
faces. They were dressed in pale silver anti-
chemical and biological uniforms with hoods and
gas masks, and they carried semi-automatic ma-
chine guns. They had dogs with them, scrawny
Alsatians, straining at the end of metal leashes. It
was as if they had walked out of my worst night-
mare. They didn’t look human at all.

It should have been obvious from the start that
whoever had sent the helicopters would follow
them up with an infantry backup. First, destroy
the village, then put a noose around the place to
make sure there are no survivors who can spread
the virus. The line of militia men, if that’s what
they were, would have formed a huge circle
around Estrov. They would close in from all
sides. And they would have been told to shoot
any stragglers – Leo and me – on sight. Nobody
could be allowed to tell what had happened. And,
above all, the anthrax virus that we might be car-
rying must not break free.

92/621

They would have seen us at once but for the
rain. And the dogs too would have smelt us if
everything hadn’t been so wet. In the darkness of
the forest, the pale colour of their protective gear
stood out, but for a few precious seconds we
were invisible. I reached out and grabbed Leo’s
arm. We turned and ran the way we had come.

It was the worst thing to do. Since that time,
long ago now, I have been taught survival tech-
niques for exactly such situations. You do not
break your pace. You do not panic. It is the very
rhythm of your movement that will alert your en-
emy. We should have melted to one side, found
cover and then retreated as quickly but as steadily
as we could. Instead, the sound of our shoes
stamping on the wet ground signalled that we
were there. One of the dogs began to bark fero-
ciously, followed immediately by the rest of
them. Somebody shouted. An instant later there
was the deafening clamour of machine-gun fire,
weapons spraying bullets that sliced through the
trees and the leaves, sending pieces of debris

93/621

showering over our heads. We had been seen.
The line began to move forward more urgently.
We were perhaps thirty or forty metres ahead of
them but we were already close to exhaustion,
drenched, unarmed. We were children. We had
no chance at all.

More machine-gun fire. I saw mud splattering
up inches from my feet. Leo was slightly ahead
of me. His legs were shorter than mine and he
had been more tired than me but I was determ-
ined to keep him in front of me, not to leave him
behind. If one went down, we both went down.
The dogs were making a hideous sound. They
had seen their prey. They wanted to be released.

And we stayed on the half-built highway! That
was a killing ground if ever there was one, wide
and exposed … an easy matter for a sniper to
pick us off. I suppose we thought we could run
faster with a flat surface beneath our feet. But
every step I took, I was waiting for the bullet that
would come smashing between my shoulders. I
could hear the dogs, the guns, the blast of the

whistles. I didn’t look back but I could actually
feel the men closing in behind me.

Still, we had the advantage of distance. The
line of soldiers would move more slowly than us.
They wouldn’t want to break rank and risk the
chance of our doubling back and slipping
through. I had perhaps one minute to work out
some sort of scheme before they caught up with
us. Climb a tree? No, it would take too long, and
anyway, the dogs would sniff us out. Continue
back down the hill? Pointless. There were prob-
ably more soldiers coming up the other side. I
was still running, my heart pounding in my chest,
the breath harsh in my throat. And then I saw
it … the ditch we had passed with the plastic
tubes scattered about.

94/621

“This way, Leo!” I shouted.
At the same time, I threw myself off the road,
skidding down the deep bank and landing in a
stream of water that rose over my ankles.

“Yasha, what are you…?” Leo began but he
was sensible enough not to hesitate, turning back

and following me down, almost landing on top of
me. And so there we were, below the level of the
road, and I was already making my way back,
heading towards the line of soldiers, looking for
what I prayed must be there.

Hundreds of metres of the water pipe had
already been laid. The opening was in front of us:
a perfect black circle, like the entrance to some
futuristic cave. It was small. If I hadn’t been so
thin and Leo hadn’t been so slight, neither of us
would have fitted into it and it was unlikely that
many of the soldiers would have been able to fol-
low – certainly not in their gas masks and pro-
tective gear. They would have been mad to try.
Would they really have been prepared to bury
themselves alive, plunging into utter darkness
with tons of damp earth above their heads?

95/621

That was what we did. On our hands and
knees, we threw ourselves forward, our shoulders
scraping against the curve of the pipe. At least it
was dry inside the tunnel. But it was also pitch-
black. When I looked back to see if Leo was

96/621

behind me, I caught a glimmer of soft light a few
metres away. But when I looked ahead … there
was nothing! I brought my hand up and touched
my nose but I couldn’t see my fingers. For a mo-
ment, I found it difficult to breathe. I had to fight
off the claustrophobia, the sense of being suffoc-
ated, of being squeezed to death. I wondered if it
would be a good idea to go any further. We could
have stayed where we were and used the tunnel
as a hiding place until everyone had gone – but
that wasn’t good enough for me. I could imagine
a burst of machine-gun fire killing me or, worse
still, paralysing me and leaving me to die slowly
in the darkness. I could feel the Alsatians, sent
after us, snapping and snarling their way down
the tunnel and then tearing ferociously at our legs
and thighs. I had to let the tunnel carry me away
and it didn’t matter where it took me. So I kept
going with Leo behind me, the two of us burrow-
ing ever further beneath the wood.

To the soldiers it must have seemed as if we
had disappeared by magic. They would have

97/621

passed the ditch but it’s quite likely that they
didn’t see the pipeline – or, if they did, refused to
believe that we could actually fit into it. Once
again,
the rain covered our tracks. The dogs
failed to pick up our scent. Any footprints were
washed away. And the soldiers were completely
unaware that, as they moved forward, we were
right underneath them, crawling like insects
through the mud. When I looked back again, the
entrance was no longer there. It was as if a shut-
ter had come down, sealing us in. I could hear
Leo very close to me, his breath sobbing. But any
sound in the tunnel was strange and muted. I felt
the weight above me, pressing down.

We had swapped one hell for another.
We could only go forward. There wasn’t
enough room to turn round. I suppose we could
have shuffled backwards until we reached the
tunnel entrance, but what was the point of that?
The soldiers would be looking for us and once
we emerged the dogs would be onto us instantly.
On the other hand, the further we went forward,

the worse our situation became. Suppose the tun-
nel simply ended? Suppose we ran out of air?
Every inch that we continued was another inch
into the grave and it took all my willpower to
force myself on. I think Leo only followed be-
cause he didn’t want to be left on his own. I was
getting warmer. Once more, I was sweating in-
side my clothes. I could feel the sweat mixed
with rainwater under my armpits and in the palms
of my hands. My knees were already hurting. Oc-
casionally, I passed rivets, where one section of
the pipe had been fastened into the next, and I
felt them tugging at my anorak, scratching across
my back. And I was blind. It really was as if
someone had switched off my eyes. The black-
ness was very physical. It was like a surgical
operation.

“Yasha…?” Leo’s whispered voice came out

of nowhere.

98/621

“It’s all right, Leo,” I said. My own voice

didn’t sound like me at all. “Not much further.”

99/621

But we continued for what felt like an eternity.
We were moving like robots with no sense of dir-
ection, no choice of where to go. We were simply
functioning – one hand forward, then the next,
knees following behind, utterly alone. There was
nothing to hear apart from ourselves. Suppose the
tunnel went all the way to Kirsk? Would we have
the strength to travel as far as twenty miles un-
derground? Of course not. Between us, we had
half a litre of water. We hadn’t eaten for hours.
I had to stop myself imagining what might hap-
pen. If I wasn’t careful, I would scare myself to
death.

Hand and knee, hand and knee. Every part of
me was hurting. I wanted to stand up, and the fact
that I couldn’t almost made me cry out with frus-
tration. My shoulders hit the curve of the pipe
again and again. My eyes were closed. What was
the point of using them when I couldn’t see? And
then, quite suddenly, I was outside. I felt the
breeze brush over my shoulders and the rain,
lighter now, patter onto my head and the back of

100/621

my neck. I opened my eyes. The workmen had
constructed some sort of inspection hatch and
they had left this part of the pipe open. I was
crouching in a V-shaped ditch with pieces of wire
and rusting metal bolts all around. I pulled back
my sleeve and looked at my watch. Amazingly, it
was five o’clock. I thought only an hour had
passed but the whole day had gone.

Leo clambered out into the half-light and sat
there, blinking. For a moment, neither of us dared
speak but there were no sounds around us and it
seemed fairly certain we were on our own.

“We’re OK,” I said. “We went under them.

They don’t know we’re here.”

“What next?” Leo asked.
“We can keep going … follow the road to

Kirsk.”

there.”

“They’ll be looking for us there.”
“I know. We can worry about that when we get

And just for one moment, I thought we were
going to make it. We had escaped from the

101/621

helicopters. We had outwitted the soldiers. I had
a hundred rubles in my pocket. I would get us to
Moscow and we would tell the whole world what
had happened and we would be heroes. Right
then, I really did think that, despite what we had
been through and all that we had lost, we might
actually be all right.

But then Leo spoke.
“Yasha,” he said. “I don’t feel well.”

НОЧЬ

NIGHT

We couldn’t stay where we were. I was afraid
that the soldiers would see the entrance to the
pipeline and realize how we had managed to slip
past them – in which case they would double
back and find us. We had to put more distance
between us and them while we still had the
strength. But at the same time I saw that Leo
couldn’t go much further. He had a headache and
he was finding it difficult to breathe. Was it too
much to hope that he had simply caught a cold,
that he was in shock? It didn’t have to be contam-
ination by the chemicals from the factory. I tried
to convince myself that, like me, he was ex-
hausted and if he could just get a night’s rest he
would be well again.

104/621

Even so, I knew I had to find him somewhere
warm to shelter. He needed food. Somehow I had
to dry his clothes. As I looked around me, at the
spindly trees that rose up into an ever darkening
sky, I felt a sense of complete helplessness. How
could I possibly manage on my own? I wanted
my parents and I had to remind myself that they
weren’t going to come, that I was never going to
see them again. I was sick with grief – but
something inside me told me that I couldn’t give
in. Leo and I hadn’t escaped from Estrov simply
to die out here, a few miles away, in the middle
of a forest.

We walked together for another hour, still fol-
lowing the road. They’d been able to afford as-
phalt for this section, which at least made it easi-
er to find our way in the dark. I knew it was dan-
gerous, that we had more chance of being spot-
ted, but I didn’t dare lose myself among the trees.
And in the end it was the right decision. We
stumbled upon it quite by chance, a wooden hut
which must have been built for the construction

105/621

team and abandoned only recently. The door was
padlocked but I managed to kick it in, and once
we were inside I was surprised to find two bunks,
a table, cupboards and even an iron stove. I
checked the cupboards. There was no food or
medicine but the almost empty shelves did offer
me a few rewards. Using my torch, I found some
old newspapers, saucepans, tin mugs and a fork. I
was glad now that I had thought to take a box of
matches from my kitchen and that my waterproof
clothes had managed to keep them dry. There
was no coal or firewood so I tore off some of the
cupboard doors and smashed them up with my
foot, and ten minutes later I had a good fire blaz-
ing. I wasn’t worried about the smoke being seen.
It was too dark and I kept the door and the shut-
ters closed to stop the light escaping.

I helped Leo out of his wet clothes and laid
them on the floor to dry. He stretched himself out
on the nearest bunk and I covered him with
newspaper and a rug from the floor. It might not
have been too clean but at least it would help to

106/621

keep him warm. I had the food that I had brought
from my home and I took it out. Leo and I had
drunk all our water but that wasn’t a problem. I
carried a saucepan outside and filled it from the
gutter that ran round the side of the building.
After the rain, it was full to overflowing and boil-
ing the water in the flames would get rid of any
germs. I added the tea and the sugar, and bal-
anced the pan on the stove. I broke the chocolate
bars into pieces and examined the tins. There
were three of them and they all contained herring
but, fool that I was, I had forgotten to bring a tin
opener.

While Leo drifted in and out of sleep, I spent
the next half-hour desperately trying to open the
tins. In a way, it did me good to have to focus on
a problem that was so small and so stupid. Forget
the fact that you are alone, in hiding, that there
are soldiers who want to kill you, that your best
friend is ill, that everything has been taken from
you. Open the tin! In the end, I managed it
with the fork that I had found, hammering at it

107/621

with a heavy stone and piercing the lid so many
times that eventually I was able to peel it away.
The herring was grey and oily. I’m not sure that
anyone eats it any more, but it had always been a
special treat when I was growing up. My mother
would serve it with slabs of dry black bread or
sometimes potatoes. When I smelt
the fish, I
thought of her and I felt all the pain welling up
once more, even though I was doing everything I
could to block out what had happened.

I tried to feed some to Leo but, after all my ef-
forts, he was too tired to eat and it was all I could
manage to force him to sip some tea. I was sud-
denly very hungry myself and gobbled down one
of the tins, leaving the other two for him. I was
still hopeful that he would be feeling better in the
morning. It seemed to me that now that he was
resting, he was breathing a little easier. Maybe all
the rain would have washed away the anthrax
spores. His clothes were still drying in front of
the fire. Sitting there, watching his chest rise and

fall beneath the covers, I tried to persuade myself
that everything would be all right.

108/621

It was the beginning of the longest night of my
life. I took off my outer clothes and lay down on
the second bunk but I couldn’t sleep. I was
frightened that
the fire would go out. I was
frightened that the soldiers would find the hut
and burst in. Actually, I was so filled with fears
of one sort or another that I didn’t need to define
them. For hours I listened to the crackle of the
flames and the rasp of Leo’s breath in his throat.
From time to time, I drifted into a state where I
was
fully conscious.
Several times, I got up and fed more of the fur-
niture into the stove, doing my best to break the
wood without making too much noise. Once, I
went outside to urinate. It was no longer raining
but a few drops of water were still falling from
the trees. I could hear them but I couldn’t see
them. The sky was totally black. As I stood there,
I heard the howl of a wolf. I had been holding the
torch but at that moment I almost dropped it into

floating, although still

109/621

the undergrowth. So the wolves weren’t just a bit
of village gossip! This one could have been far
away, but it seemed to be right next to me, the
sound starting impossibly low then rising higher
and higher as if the creature had somehow flown
into the air. I buttoned myself up and ran back in-
side, determined that nothing would get me out
again until it was light.

My own clothes were still damp. I took them
off and knelt in front of the fire. If anything
got me through that night it was that stove. It
kept me warm and without its glow I wouldn’t
have been able to see, which would have made
all my imaginings even worse. I took out the roll
of ten-ruble notes that had been in the tin and at
the same time I found the little black bag my
mother had given me. I opened it. Inside, there
was a pair of earrings, a necklace and a ring.
I had never seen them before and wondered
where she had got them from. Were they valu-
able? I made an oath to myself that whatever
happened, I would never sell them. They were

110/621

the only remains of my past life. They were all I
had left. I wrapped them up again and climbed
onto the other bunk. Almost naked and lying un-
comfortably on the hard mattress, I dozed off
again. When I next opened my eyes, the fire was
almost out and when I pulled back the shutters,
the very first streaks of pink were visible outside.
The sun seemed to take for ever to rise. They
call them the small hours, that time from four
o’clock onwards, and I know from experience
that they are always the most miserable of the
day. That is when you feel most vulnerable and
alone. Leo was sound asleep. The hut was even
more desolate than before – I had fed almost any-
thing that was made of wood into the fire. The
world outside was wet, cold and threatening. As I
got dressed again, I remembered that in a few
hours I should have been going to school.

Wake up, Yasha. Come on! Get your things

together…

I had to force my mother’s voice out of my
head. She wasn’t there for me any more. Nobody

was. From now on, if I was to survive, I had to
look after myself.

The two remaining tins of fish were still wait-
ing, uneaten, on a shelf beside the fire. I was
tempted to wolf them down myself, as I was
really hungry, but I was keeping them for Leo.
I made some more tea and ate a little chocolate,
then I went back outside. The sky was now a
dirty off-white, and the trees were more skeletal
than ever. But at least there was nobody around.
The soldiers hadn’t come back. Walking around,
I came across a shrub of bright red lingonberries.
They were past their best but I knew they would
be edible. We used to make them into a dish
called kissel, a sort of jelly, and I stuffed some of
them into my mouth. They were slightly sour but
I thought they would keep me going and I placed
several more in my pockets.

111/621

“Yasha…?”
As I returned to the hut, I heard Leo call my
name. He had woken up. I was delighted to hear

his voice and hurried over to him. “How are you
feeling, Leo?” I asked.

“Where are we?”
“We found a shed. After the tunnel. Don’t you

112/621

remember?”

“I’m very cold, Yasha.”
He looked terrible. As much as I wanted to, I
couldn’t pretend otherwise. There was no colour
at all in his face, and his eyes were burning, out
of focus. I didn’t know why he was cold. The one
thing I had managed to do was to keep the hut
reasonably warm and I had put plenty of make-
shift covers on the bed.

“Maybe you should eat something,” I said.
I brought the open tin of herring over but he
recoiled at the smell. “I don’t want it,” he said.
His voice rattled in his chest. He sounded like an
old man.

“All right. But you must have some tea.”
I took the mug over and forced him to sip from
it. As he strained his neck towards me, I noticed a
red mark under his chin and, very slowly, trying

not to let him know what I was doing, I folded
back the covers to see what was going on. I was
shocked by what I saw. The whole of Leo’s neck
and chest was covered in dreadful, diamond-
shaped sores. His skin looked as if it had been
burned in a fire. I could easily imagine that his
whole body was like this and I didn’t want to see
any more. His face was the only part of him that
had been spared. Underneath the covers he was a
rotting corpse.

I knew that if it hadn’t been for my parents, I
would be exactly the same as Leo. They had in-
jected me with something that protected me from
the biochemical weapon that they had helped to
build. They had said it acted quickly and here
was the living – or perhaps the dying – proof. No
wonder the authorities had been so quick to quar-
antine the area. If the anthrax had managed to do
this to Leo in just a few hours, imagine what it
would do to the rest of Russia as it spread.

113/621

“I’m sorry, Yasha,” Leo whispered.

114/621

“There’s nothing to be sorry about,” I said.
I was casting about me, trying to find something
to do. The fire, untended, had almost gone out.
But there was no more wood to put in it anyway.

“I can’t come with you,” Leo said.
“Yes, you can. We’re just going to have to
wait. That’s all. You’ll feel better when the sun
comes up.”

He shook his head. He knew I was lying for
his sake. “I don’t mind. I’m glad you looked after
me. I always liked being with you, Yasha.”

He rested his head back. Despite the marks on
his body, he didn’t seem to be in pain. I sat be-
side him, and after a few minutes he began to
mutter something. I leant closer. He wasn’t say-
ing anything. He was singing. I recognized the
words. “Close the door after me … I’m going.”
Everyone at school would have known the song.
It was by a rock singer called Viktor Tsoi and it
had been the rage throughout the summer.

Perhaps Leo didn’t even want to live – not
without his family, not without the village. He

115/621

got to the end of the line and he died. And the
truth is that, apart from the silence, there wasn’t a
great deal of difference between Leo alive and
Leo dead. He simply stopped. I closed his eyes. I
drew the covers over his face. And then I began
to cry. Is it shocking that I felt Leo’s death even
more than that of my own parents? Maybe it was
because they had been snatched from me so sud-
denly. I hadn’t even been given a chance to react.
But it had taken Leo the whole of that long night
to die and I was sitting with him even now, re-
membering everything he had been to me. I had
been close to my parents but much closer to Leo.
And he was so young … the same age as me.
In a way, I think I am writing this for Leo.
I have decided to keep a record of my life be-
cause I suspect my life will be short. I do not par-
ticularly want to be remembered. Being unknown
has been essential to my work. But I sometimes
think of him and I would like him to understand
what it was that made me what I am. After all,
living as a boy of fourteen in a Russian village, it

116/621

had never been my intention to become a contract
killer.

Leo’s death may have been one step on my
journey. It was not a major step. It did not change
me. That happened much later.

helicopters

I set fire to the hut with Leo still inside it. I re-
membered
knew that
the flames might attract their attention, but it was
the only way I could think of to prevent the dis-
ease spreading. And if the soldiers were drawn
here, perhaps it wasn’t such a bad thing. They
had their gas masks and protective suits. They
would know how to decontaminate the area.

that didn’t mean I was going to hang
around waiting for them to come. With the
smoke billowing behind me, carrying Leo out of
this world, I hurried away, along the road to
Kirsk.

the

and

But

КИРСК

KIRSK

I entered Kirsk on legs that were tired and feet
that were sore and remembered that the last time
I had been there, it had been on a school trip to
the museum.

Lenin had once visited Kirsk. The great Soviet
leader had stopped briefly in the town on his way
to somewhere more important because there was
a problem with his train. He made a short speech
on the station platform, then went to the local
café for a cup of tea and, happening to glance in
the mirror, decided that his beard and moustache
needed a trim. Not surprisingly, the local barber
almost had a heart attack when the most powerful
man in the Soviet Union walked into his shop.
The cup that he drank from and the clippings of

119/621

black hair were still on display in the History and
Folklore Museum of Kirsk.

It was a large, reddish-brown building with
rooms that were filled with objects and after only
an hour my head had already been pounding.
From the outside, it looked like a railway station.
Curiously, Kirsk railway station looked quite like
a museum, with wide stairs, pillars and huge
bronze doors that should have opened onto
something more important
than ticket offices,
platforms and waiting rooms. I had seen it on that
last trip but I couldn’t remember where it was.
When you’ve been taken to a place in a coach
and marched around shoulder to shoulder in a
long line with no talking allowed, you don’t
really look where you’re going. That hadn’t been
my only visit. My father had taken me to the
cinema here once. And then there had been my
visit to the hospital. But all these places could
have been on different planets. I had no idea
where they were in relation to one another.

120/621

After Estrov, the place felt enormous. I had
forgotten how many buildings there were, how
many shops, how many cars and buses racing up
and down the wide, cobbled streets. Everywhere
seemed to have electricity. There were wires zig-
zagging from pole to pole, crossing each other
like a disastrous cat’s cradle. But I’m not sug-
gesting that Kirsk was anything special. I’d spent
my whole life in a tiny village so I was easily im-
pressed. I didn’t notice the crumbling plaster on
the buildings, the empty construction sites, the
pits in the road and the dirty water running
through the gutters.

It was late afternoon when I arrived and the
light was already fading. My mother had said
there were two trains a day to Moscow and I
hoped I was in time to catch the evening one. I
had never spent a night in a hotel before and even
though I had money in my pocket, the idea of
finding one and booking a room filled me with
fear. How much would I have to pay? Would
they even give a room to a boy on his own? I had

121/621

the

been walking non-stop, leaving the forest behind
me just after midday. I was starving hungry.
Since I had left the shed, all I’d had to eat were
the lingonberries I’d collected. I still had a hand-
ful of them in my pocket but I couldn’t eat any
more because they were giving me stomach
cramps. My feet were aching and soaking wet. I
was wearing my leather boots, which had sud-
denly decided to leak. I felt filthy and wondered
if they would let me onto the train. And what if
they didn’t? I had only one plan – to get to Mo-
scow – and even that seemed daunting. I had seen
pictures of the city at school, of course, but I had
no real idea what it would be like.

Finding the station wasn’t so difficult in the
end. Somehow I stumbled across the centre of the
town … I suppose every road led there if you
walked enough. It was a spacious area with an
empty fountain and a Second World War monu-
ment, a slab of granite shaped like a slice of cake
with
inscription: WE SALUTE THE
GLORIOUS DEAD OF KIRSK. I had always

122/621

been brought up to respect all those who had lost
their lives in the war, but I know now that there is
nothing glorious about being dead. The monu-
ment was surrounded by statues of generals and
soldiers, many of them on horseback. Was that
how they had set off to face the German tanks?

The station was right in front of me, at the end
of a wide, very straight boulevard with trees on
both sides. I recognized it at once. It was sur-
rounded by stalls selling everything from suit-
cases, blankets and cushions to all sorts of food
and drink. I could smell shashlyk – skewers of
meat – cooking on charcoal fires and it made my
mouth water. I was desperate to buy something
but that was when I realized I had a problem. Al-
though I had a lot of money in my pocket, it was
all in large notes. I had no coins. If I were to hand
over a ten-ruble note for a snack that would cost
no more than a few kopecks, I would only draw
attention to myself. The stallholder would as-
sume I was a thief. Better to wait until I’d bought

my train ticket. At
change.

least

then I would have

123/621

With these thoughts in my mind, I walked to-
wards the main entrance of the station. I was so
relieved to have got here and so anxious to be on
my way that I was careless. I was keeping my
head down, trying not to catch anyone’s eye. I
should have been looking all around me. In fact,
if I had been sensible, I would have tried to enter
the station from a completely different direc-
tion … around the side or the back. As it was, I
hadn’t taken more than five or six steps before I
found that my way was blocked. I glanced up and
saw two policemen standing in front of me,
dressed in long grey coats with insignia around
their collars and military caps. They were both
young,
in their twenties. They had revolvers
hanging from their belts.

“Where are you going?” one of them asked.
He had bad skin, very raw, as if he had only star-
ted shaving recently and had used a blunt razor.

“To the station.” I pointed, trying to sound

124/621

casual.

“Why?”
“I work there. After school. I help clean the
platforms.” I was making things up as I went
along.

“Where have you come from?”
“Over there…” I pointed to one of the apart-
ment blocks I had passed on my way into the
town.

“Your name?”
“Leo Tretyakov.” My poor dead friend. Why

had I chosen him?

The two policemen hesitated and for a moment
I thought they were going to let me pass. Surely
there was no reason to stop me. I was just a boy,
doing odd jobs after school. But then the second
policeman spoke. “Your identity papers,” he de-
manded. His eyes were cold.

I had used a false name because I was afraid
the authorities would know who I was. After all,
it had been my parents, Anton and Eva

Gregorovich, who had escaped from the factory.
But now I was trapped. The moment they looked
at my passport, they would know I had lied to
them. I should have been watching out for them
from the start. Now that I looked around me, I
realized that the station was crawling with police-
men. Obviously. The police would know what
had happened at Estrov. They would have been
told that two boys had escaped. They had been
warned to keep an eye out for us at every station
in the area … and I had simply walked into their
arms.

“I don’t have them,” I stammered. I put a stu-
pid look on my face, as if I didn’t realize how
serious it was to be out without ID. “They’re at
home.”

125/621

It might have worked. I was only fourteen and
looked young for my age. But maybe the police-
men had been given my description. Maybe one
of the helicopter pilots had managed to take my
photograph as he flew overhead. Either way, they
knew. I could see it
the way

in their eyes,

126/621

they glanced at each other. They were only at the
start of their careers, and this was a huge moment
for them. It could lead to promotion, a pay rise,
their names in the newspaper. They had just
scored big time. They had me.

“You will come with us,” the first policeman

said.

“But I’ve done nothing wrong. My mother will
be worried.” Why was I even bothering? Neither
of them believed me.

“No arguments,” the second man snapped.
I had no choice. If I argued, if I tried to run,
they would grab me and call for backup. I would
be bundled into a police van before I could blink.
It was better, for the moment, to stick with them.
If they were determined to bring me into the po-
lice station themselves, there might still be an op-
portunity for me to get away. The building could
be on the other side of town. By going with them,
I would at least buy myself a little time to plan a
way out of this.

127/621

We walked slowly and all the time I was think-
ing, my eyes darting about, adding up the possib-
ilities. There were plenty of people around. The
working day was coming to an end and they were
on their way home. But they wouldn’t help me.
They wouldn’t want to get involved. I glanced
back at the two policemen who were walking
about two steps behind me. What was it that I
had noticed about them? They had clearly been
pleased they had caught me, no question of that –
but at the same time they were nervous. Well,
that was understandable. This was a big deal for
them.
But

there was something else. They were
nervous for another reason. I saw it now. They
were walking very carefully, close enough to
grab me if I tried to escape but not so close that
they could actually touch me. Why the distance
between me and them? Why hadn’t
they put
handcuffs on me? Why were they giving me even
the smallest chance to run away? It made no
sense.

128/621

Unless they knew.
That was it. It had to be.
I had supposedly been infected with a virus so
deadly that it had forced the authorities to wipe
out my village. It had killed Leo in less than
twenty-four hours. The soldiers in the forest had
all been dressed in biochemical protective gear.
The police in Kirsk – and in Rosna, for that mat-
ter – must have been told that I was dangerous,
infected. None of them could have guessed that
my parents had risked everything to inoculate
me. They probably didn’t know that an antidote
existed at all. There was nothing to protect the
young officers who had arrested me. As far as
they were concerned, I was a walking time bomb.
They wanted to bring me in. But they weren’t go-
ing to come too close.

We continued walking, away from the station.
A few people passed us but said nothing and
looked the other way. The policemen were still
hanging back and now I knew why. Although it

129/621

didn’t look like it, I had the upper hand. They
were afraid of me! And I could use that.

Casually, I slipped my hand into my pocket.
Because the two men were behind me,
they
didn’t see the movement. I took it out and wiped
my mouth. I sensed that we were drawing close
to the police station from the police cars parked
ahead.

“Down there…!” one of

the policemen
snapped. We were going to enter the police sta-
tion the back way, down a wide alleyway and
across a deserted car park with overflowing dust-
bins lined up along a rusting fence. We turned off
and suddenly we were on our own. It was exactly
what I wanted.

I stumbled slightly and let out a groan, clutch-
ing hold of my stomach. Neither of the police-
men spoke. I stopped. One of them prodded me
in the back. Just one finger. No contact with my
skin.

“Keep moving,” he commanded.

“I can’t,” I said, putting as much pain as I

130/621

could manage into my voice.

I twisted round. At the same time, I began to
cough, making horrible retching noises as if my
lungs were tearing themselves apart. I sucked in,
gasping for air, still holding my stomach. The po-
licemen stared at me in horror. There was bright
blood all around my lips, trickling down my chin.
I coughed again and drops of blood splattered in
their direction. I watched them fall back as if they
had come face to face with a poisonous snake.
And as far as they knew, my blood was poison. If
any of it touched them, they would end up like
me.

But it wasn’t blood.
Just a minute ago, I had slipped some of the
lingonberries from the forest into my mouth and
chewed them up. What I was spitting was red
berry juice mixed with my own saliva.

“Please help me,” I said. “I’m not well.”
The two policemen had come to a dead halt,
caught between two conflicting desires: one to

hold onto me, the other to be as far away from
me as possible. I was overacting like crazy, grim-
acing and staggering about like a drunk, but it
didn’t matter. Just as I’d suspected, they’d been
told how dangerous I was. They knew the stakes.
Their imagination was doing half the work for
me.

“Everyone died,” I went on. “They all died.
Please … I don’t want to be like them.” I reached
out imploringly. My hand was stained red. The
two men stepped back. They weren’t coming
anywhere near. “So much pain!” I sobbed. I fell
to my knees. The juice dripped onto my jacket.

131/621

The policemen made their decision. If they
stayed where they were, if they tried to force me
to my feet, it would kill them … quickly and un-
pleasantly. Yes, they wanted their promotion. But
their lives mattered more. Maybe it occurred to
them that the very fact that they had come close
to me meant they themselves would have to be
eliminated. As far as they could see, I was dying
anyway. I was lying on my side now, writhing on

132/621

the ground, sobbing. My whole face was covered
in blood. One of them spoke briefly to the other. I
didn’t hear what he said but his colleague must
have agreed because a moment later they had
gone, hurrying back the way they had come. I
watched them turn a corner. I very much doubted
that they would report what had just happened.
After all, dereliction of duty would not be
something they would wish to advertise. They
would probably spend the rest of the day at the
bathhouse, hoping that the steam and hot water
would wash away the disease.

I waited until I was sure they had gone, then
got
to my feet and wiped my face with my
sleeve. At least the encounter had given me an
advance warning. There was no way I was going
to walk into the railway station at Kirsk. The mo-
ment I tried to buy a train ticket, there would be
someone there to arrest me and I very much
doubted the same trick would work a second
time. If I was going to get onto a train to

I was going to have to think of

133/621

Moscow,
something else.

And I already had an idea.
There had been quite a few passengers arriving
in taxis and coming off buses just before I had
been arrested and that suggested that the evening
train might be coming soon. At the same time,
I’d seen a number of porters running forward to
help them with their luggage. Some of them had
been boys, dressed in loose-fitting grey jackets
with red piping down the sleeves. I don’t think
they were employed officially. They were just
trying to make a few kopecks on the side.

I made my way back towards the station – only
this time I stayed behind the trees, close to the
buildings, keeping an eye out for any policemen,
mingling with the crowd. I soon found what I
was looking for. One of the porters was sitting
outside a café, smoking a cigarette. He was about
my age, even if he was trying to disguise it with a
beard and a moustache. They were both made of
that horrible wispy hair that doesn’t really belong

on a face. His jacket was hanging open. His cap
sat crookedly on his head.

I sidled up next to him and sat down. After a
while, he noticed me and nodded in my direction
without smiling. It was enough.

“When’s the next train to Moscow?” I asked.
He glanced at his watch. “Twenty minutes.”
I pretended to consider this piece of informa-
tion. “How would you like to make five rubles?”
I asked.

His eyes narrowed. Five rubles was probably

134/621

as much as he earned in a week.

“I’ll be honest with you, friend,” I said. “I’m in
trouble with the police. I was almost arrested just
now. I need to get on that train and if you’ll sell
me your jacket and your cap, I’ll give you the
cash.”

It was not such a big gamble. Somehow, I
knew that this boy would be greedy. And any-
way, most people in Russia would help you if
you were trying to get away from the authorities.
That was how we were.

“Why do the police want you?” he asked.
“I’m a thief.”
He sucked lazily on his cigarette. “I will give
you my jacket and cap,” he said. “But it will cost
you ten rubles.”

“Agreed.”
I took out the money, taking care not to show
him how much I had, and handed over a single
note. Tonight, this porter would drink himself in-
to a stupor. He might invite his friends to join
him. He handed me his coat and his cap – but I
did not go straight to the station. I stopped at one
of the stalls and used another four rubles to buy a
pair of second-hand suitcases from an old man
who had a whole pile of them. Quickly, I took off
my outer clothes and slipped them into one of the
cases. I put on the jacket and cap. Then, carrying
the suitcases, I made my way to the station.

135/621

It seemed now that

the police were every-
where. Was it possible that the ones who had ar-
rested me had talked after all? They had thrown a
ring around the entire building. They were in

136/621

front of the ticket office, on the platform. But not
one of them noticed me. I waited until a smart-
looking couple – some sort of local government
official and his wife – got out of a taxi and I fol-
lowed them into the station. They did not look
round. But to the police and to anyone else who
glanced our way, it simply looked as if they had
hired a porter and that the two almost empty
cases I was carrying were theirs.

I had timed it perfectly. We had no sooner ar-
rived at the platform than a train drew in. The
evening train to Moscow. I followed my clients
to their carriage and climbed in behind them.
They were completely unaware of my presence
and although I was out
in plain sight,
nobody challenged me.

there,

This is something that has not changed to this
day. People look at the clothes you are wearing
without ever thinking about the person who is in-
side. A man with a back-to-front collar is a vicar.
A woman in a white coat with a stethoscope

137/621

around her neck is a doctor. It is as simple as
that. You do not ask them for ID.

I stayed on the train and a few minutes later it
left, very quickly picking up speed, carrying me
into the darkness. I knew I would never return.

МОСКВА

MOSCOW

Kazansky Station. Moscow.

It is hard to remember my feelings as the train
drew near to its final destination. On the one
hand, I was elated. I had made it. I had travelled
six hundred miles, leaving the police and all my
other problems behind me. But what of this new
world in which I was about to find myself? The
train would stop. The doors would open. And
what then?

Through the windows I had already seen apart-
ment blocks, one after another, that must have
been home to tens of thousands of people. How
could they live like that, so many of them, piled
up on top of each other? Then there were
the churches and
ten

domes,

their

golden

140/621

times the size of poor St Nicholas. The factories
billowing smoke into a sky that was cloudless,
sunless, a single sheet of grey. But all of these
were dwarfed by the skyscrapers with their spires
and glittering needles,
thousands of windows,
millions of bricks, rising up as if from some
crazy dream. Of course I had been shown pic-
tures of them at school. I knew they had been
built by Stalin back in the 1940s and 1950s. But
seeing them for myself was different. Somehow I
was shocked that they did actually exist and that
they really were here, scattered around the city,
watching over it.

I had been fortunate on the train. There was an
empty compartment right at the back with a bunk
bed that folded down. That was where I slept –
not on the bunk but underneath it on the floor,
out of sight of the ticket collectors. The strange
thing was that I managed to sleep at all, but then I
suppose I was exhausted. I woke up once or
twice in the night and listened to the train rum-
bling through the darkness and I could almost

141/621

feel the memories slipping away … Estrov, Leo,
my parents, my school. I knew that by the time I
arrived in Moscow, I would be little more than an
empty shell, a fourteen-year-old boy with no past
and perhaps no future. There was even a small
part of me that wished I hadn’t escaped from the
police. At least, that way, I wouldn’t have to
make any decisions. I wouldn’t be on my own.

One name stayed with me, turning over and
over in my head. Misha Dementyev. He worked
in the biology department of Moscow State
University and my mother had insisted that he
would look after me. Surely it wouldn’t be so
hard to find him. The worst of my troubles might
already be over. That was what I tried to tell
myself.

The station was jammed. I had never seen so
many people in one place. As I stepped down
from the train, I found myself on a platform that
seemed to stretch on for ever, with passengers
milling about everywhere, carrying suitcases,
packages, bundles of clothes, some of
them

142/621

chewing on sandwiches, others emptying their
hip-flasks. Everyone was tired and grimy. There
were policemen too but I didn’t think they were
looking for me. I had taken off the porter’s cap
and jacket and abandoned the suitcases. Once
again I was wearing my Young Pioneers outfit,
although I thought of getting rid of that too. It
was quite warm in Moscow. The air felt heavy
and smelt of oil and smoke.

I allowed myself to be swept along, following
the crowd through a vast ticket hall, larger than
any room I had ever seen, and out into the street.
I found myself standing on the edge of a square.
Again, it was the size that struck me first. To my
eyes, this one single space was as big as the
whole of Kirsk. It had lanes of traffic and cars,
buses,
in every direction.
Traffic – the very notion of a traffic jam – was a
new experience for me and I was overwhelmed
by the noise and the stench of the exhaust fumes.
Even today it sometimes surprises me that people
are willing to put up with it. The cars were every

trams roaring past

143/621

colour imaginable. I had seen official Chaikas
and Ladas but it was as if these vehicles had driv-
en here from every country in the world. Grey
taxis with chessboard patterns on their hoods
dodged in and out of the different lines. Subways
had been built for pedestrians, which was just as
well. Trying to cross on the surface would have
been suicide.

There were three separate railway stations in
the square, each one trying to outdo the other
with soaring pillars, archways and towers. Trav-
ellers were arriving from different parts of Russia
and as soon as they emerged they were greeted
by all sorts of food stalls, mainly run by wrinkled
old women in white aprons and hats. In fact
people were selling everything … meat, veget-
ables, Chinese jeans and padded jackets, electric-
al goods, their own furniture. Some of them must
have come off the train for no other reason.
Nobody had any money. This was where you had
to start.

144/621

My own needs were simple and immediate. I
was dizzy with hunger. I headed to the nearest
food stall and started with a small pie filled with
cabbage and meat. I followed it with a currant
bun – we called them kalerikas and they were
specially made to fill you up. Then I bought a
drink from a machine that squirted syrup and
fizzy water into a glass. It still wasn’t enough. I
had another and then a raspberry ice cream that I
bought for seven kopecks. The lady beamed at
me as she handed it over … as if she knew it was
something special. I remember the taste of it to
this day.

It was as I finished the last spoonful that I real-
ized I was being watched. There was a boy of
about seventeen or eighteen leaning against a
lamp-post, examining me. He was the same
height as me but more thickly set with muddy
eyes and long, very straight, almost colourless
hair. He would have been handsome but at some
time his nose had been broken and it had set un-
evenly, giving his whole face an unnatural slant.

145/621

He was wearing a black leather jacket which was
much too big for him, the sleeves rolled back so
that they wouldn’t cover his hands. Perhaps he
had stolen it. Nobody was coming anywhere near
him. Even the travellers seemed to avoid him.
From the way he was standing there, you would
think he owned the pavement and perhaps half
the city. I quite liked that, the way he had nothing
but pretended otherwise.

As I gazed around me, I realized that there
were quite a lot of children outside Kazansky sta-
tion, most of them huddling together in groups
close to the entrance without daring to go inside.
These children looked much less well off than the
boy in the leather jacket; emaciated with pale
skin and hollow eyes. Some of them were trying
to beg from the arriving passengers but they were
doing it half-heartedly, as if they were nervous of
being seen. I saw a couple of tiny boys who
couldn’t have been more than ten years old,
homeless and half starved. I felt ashamed. What
would they have been thinking as they watched

146/621

me gorge myself? I was tempted to go over and
give them a few kopecks but before I could
move, the older boy suddenly walked forward
and stood in front of me. There was something
about his manner that unnerved me. He seemed
to be smiling at some private joke. Did he know
who I was, where I had come from? I got the fee-
ing that he knew everything about me, even
though we had never met.

“Hello, soldier,” he said. He was referring, of
to my Young Pioneers outfit. “Where

course,
have you come from?”
“From Kirsk,” I said.
“Never heard of it. Nice place?”
“It’s all right.”
“First time in Moscow?”
“No. I’ve been here before.”
I had a feeling he knew straight away that I
was lying, like the policemen in Kirsk. But he
just smiled in that odd way of his. “You got
somewhere to stay?”
“I have a friend…”

147/621

“It’s good to have a friend. We all need
friends.” He looked around the square. “But
I don’t see anyone.”
“He’s not here.”
It reminded me of my first day at senior
school. I was trying to sound confident but I was
completely defenceless and he knew it. He ex-
amined me more closely, weighing up various
possibilities,
then suddenly he straightened up
and stretched out a hand. “Relax, soldier,” he
said. “I don’t want to give you any hassle. I’m
Dimitry. You can call me Dima.”

I took his hand. I couldn’t really refuse it. “I’m

Yasha,” I said.
We shook.
“Welcome to Moscow,” he said. “Welcome
back, I should say. So when were you last here?”
“It was a while ago,” I said. I knew that the
more I spoke, the more I would give away. “It
was with my parents,” I added.

“But this time you’re on your own.”
“Yes.”

The single word hung in the air.
It was hard to make out what Dima had in
mind. On the one hand he seemed friendly
enough, but on the other, I could sense him un-
ravelling me. It was that broken nose of his. It
made it very difficult to read his face. “This per-
son I’m supposed to be meeting…” I said. “He’s
a friend of my parents. He works at
the
University of Moscow. I don’t suppose you know
how to get there?”

“The university? It’s a long way from this part
of town but it’s quite easy. You can take the
Metro.” His hand slipped over my shoulder. Be-
fore I knew it, we were walking together. “The
entrance is over here. There’s a direct line that
runs all the way there. The station you want is
called Universitet. Do you have any money?”

148/621

“Not much,” I said.
“It doesn’t matter. The Metro’s cheap. In fact,
I’ll tell you what…” He reached out and a coin
appeared at his fingertips as if he had plucked it
out of the air. “Here’s five kopecks. It’s all you

149/621

need. And don’t worry about paying me back.
Always happy to help someone new to town.”

We had arrived at a staircase leading under-
ground and to my surprise he began to walk
down with me. Was he going to come the whole
way? His hand was still on my shoulder and as
we went he was telling me about the journey.

“Nine stops, maybe ten. Just stay on the train

and you’ll be there in no time…”

As he spoke, a set of swing doors opened in
front of us and two more boys appeared, coming
up the steps. They were about the same age as
Dima, one dark, the other fair. I expected them to
move aside – but they didn’t. They barged into
me and for a moment I was sandwiched between
them with Dima still behind to me. I thought they
were going to attack me but they were gone as
suddenly as they’d arrived.

“Watch out!” Dima shouted. He twisted round
and called out after them. “Why don’t you look
where you’re going?” He turned back to me.

“That’s how people are in this city. Always in a
hurry and to hell with everyone else.”

The boys had gone and we said no more about
it. Dima took me as far as the barriers. “Good
luck, soldier,” he said. “I hope you find who
you’re looking for.”

150/621

We shook hands again.
“Remember – Universitet.” With a cheerful
wave, he ambled away, leaving me on my own. I
walked forward and stopped in front of the
escalator.

I had never seen anything like it. Stairs that
moved, that carried people up and down in an
endless stream. They seemed to go on and on,
and I couldn’t believe that the railway lines had
been laid so deep. Cautiously, I stepped onto it
and found myself clinging onto the handrail, be-
ing carried down as if into the bowels of the
earth. At the very bottom, there was a uniformed
woman in a glass box. Her job was simply to
watch the passengers, to make sure that nobody
tripped over and hurt
themselves. I couldn’t

imagine what it must be like to work here all day,
buried underground, never seeing the sun.

151/621

The Moscow Metro was famous all over Rus-
sia. It had been built by workers from every part
of
the country and famous artists had been
brought in to decorate it. Each station was spec-
tacular in its own way. This one had gold-col-
oured pillars, a mosaic floor and glass spheres
hanging from the ceiling blazing with light. To
the thousands of passengers who used it, it was
nothing – simply a way of getting around – but I
was amazed. A train came roaring out of the tun-
nel almost immediately. I got on and a moment
later the doors slammed shut. With a jolt, the
train moved off.

I took a spare seat – and it was as I sat down
that I knew that something was wrong. I reached
back and patted my trouser pocket. It was empty.
I had been robbed. All my money had gone apart
from a few coins.
I played back what had
happened and realized that I had been set up from
the start. Dima had seen me paying for the food.

152/621

He knew I had cash. Somehow he must have sig-
nalled to the two other boys and sent them into
the station through another entrance. He’d kept
me talking just long enough and then he’d led me
down the steps and straight into their arms. It was
a professional job and one they had probably
done a hundred times before. My anger was as
black as the tunnel we’d plunged into. I had lost
more than seventy rubles! My parents had saved
that money. They had thought it would save me.
But I had stupidly, blindly allowed it to be taken
away from me. What a fool I was! I didn’t de-
serve to survive.

But sitting there, being swept along beneath
the city, I decided that perhaps it didn’t matter
after all. Even as the train was carrying me for-
ward, I could put it all behind me. I was going to
meet Misha Dementyev and he would look after
me. I didn’t actually need the money any more.
Looking back now, I would say that this was one
of the first valuable lessons I learnt, and one that
would be useful
in my future line of work.

153/621

Sometimes things go wrong. It is inevitable. But
it is a mistake to waste time and energy worrying
about events that you cannot
influence. Once
they have happened, let them go.

What was I expecting the university to be like?
In my mind, I had seen a single building like my
school, only bigger. But instead, when I came out
of the station, I found a city within the city, an
entire neighbourhood devoted to learning. It was
much more spacious and elegant than anything I
had so far
seen of Moscow. There were
boulevards and parks, special buses to carry the
students in and out, lawns and fountains, and not
one building but dozens of them, evenly spaced,
each one in its own domain. It was all dominated
by one of Stalin’s skyscrapers, and as I stood in
front of it I saw how it had been designed to
make you feel tiny, to remind you of the power
and the majesty of the state. Standing in front of
the steps that led to the front doors – hidden be-
hind a row of columns – I felt like the world’s
worst sinner about to enter a church. But at the

154/621

same time, the building had a magnetic attrac-
tion. I had no idea where the biology department
was. But this was the heart of the university. I
would find Misha Dementyev here. I climbed the
steps and went in.

The inside of the building didn’t seem to fit
what I had seen outside. It was like stepping into
a submarine or a ship with no windows, no
views. The ceilings were low. It was too warm.
Corridors led to more corridors. Doors opened
onto other doors. Staircases sprouted in every dir-
ection. Students marched past me on all sides,
carrying their books and their backpacks, and I
forced myself to keep moving, knowing that if I
stopped and looked lost it would be a sure way to
get noticed. It seemed to me that if there was an
administrative area, an office with the names of
all the people working at the university, it would
be somewhere close to the entrance. Surely the
university wouldn’t want casual visitors
to
plunge too far into the building or to take one of
the lifts up to the fortieth or fiftieth floor? I tried

155/621

a door. It was locked. The next one opened into a
toilet. Next to it there was a bare room, occupied
by a cleaner with a mop and a cigarette.

“What do you want?” she asked.
“The administration office.”
She looked at me balefully. “That way. On the

left. Room 1117.”

The corridor went on for about a hundred
the door marked 1117 was only

metres but
halfway down. I knocked and went in.

There were two more women sitting at desks
which were far too small for the typewriters,
piles of paper, files and ashtrays that covered
them. One of the women was plugged into an
old-fashioned telephone system,
the sort with
wires looping everywhere, but she glanced up as
I came in.

“Yes?” she demanded.
“Can you help me?” I asked. “I’m looking for

someone.”

1301.”

“You need the student office. That’s room

“I’m not looking for a student. I need to speak

to a professor. His name is Misha Dementyev.”

“Room 2425 – the twenty-fourth floor. Take

156/621

the lift at the end of the corridor.”

I felt a surge of relief. He was here! He was in
his office! At that moment, I saw the end of my
journey and the start of a new life. This man had
known my parents. Now he would help me.

I took the lift to the twenty-fourth floor, shar-
ing it with different groups of students who all
looked purposefully grubby and dishevelled. I
had been in a lift before and this old-fashioned
steel box, which shuddered and stopped at least a
dozen times, had none of the wonders of the es-
calator on the Metro. Finally I arrived at the floor
I wanted. I stepped out and followed a cream-col-
oured corridor that, like the ground floor, had no
windows. At least the offices were clearly la-
belled and I found the one I wanted right at the
corner. The door was open as I approached and I
heard a man speaking on the telephone.

“Yes, of course, Mr Sharkovsky,” he was say-

157/621

ing. “Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.”

I knocked on the door.
“Come in!”
I entered a small, cluttered room with a single,
square window looking out over the main avenue
and the steps that had first brought me into the
building. There must have been five or six hun-
dred books there, not just lined up along the
shelves but stacked up on the floor and every
available surface. They were fighting for space
with a whole range of laboratory equipment,
different-sized flasks, two microscopes, scales,
Bunsen burners, and boxes that looked like mini-
ature ovens or fridges. Most unnerving of all, a
complete human skeleton stood in a frame in one
corner as if
this
paraphernalia while its owner was away.

it were here to guard all

The man was sitting at his desk. He had just
put down the phone as I came in. My first im-
pression was that he was about the same age as
my father, with thick black hair
that only

emphasized the round bald patch in the middle of
his head. The skin here was stretched tight and
polished, reflecting the ceiling light. He had a
heavy beard and moustache, and as he examined
me from behind a pair of glasses, I saw small,
anxious eyes blinking at me as if he had never
seen a boy before – or had certainly never al-
lowed one into his office.

Actually, I was wrong about

this. He was
nervous because he knew who I was. He spoke
my name immediately. “Yasha?”

“Are you Mr Dementyev?” I asked.
“Professor Dementyev,” he replied. “Please,
come in. Close the door. Does anyone know
you’re here?”

“I asked in the administration room down-

158/621

stairs,” I said.

“You spoke to Anna?” I had no idea what the
let me reply.
woman’s name was. He didn’t
“That’s a great pity. It would have been much
better if you had telephoned me before you came.
How did you get here?”

159/621

“I came by train. My parents—”
“I know what has happened in Estrov.” He was
agitated. Suddenly there were beads of sweat on
the crown of his head. I could see them glisten-
ing. “You cannot stay here, Yasha,” he said. “It’s
too dangerous.”

I couldn’t believe what I was hearing. “My

parents said you’d look after me!”

“And I will! Of course I will!” He tried to
smile at me but he was full of nervous energy and
he was allowing his different thought processes
to tumble over each other. “Sit down, Yasha,
please!” He pointed to a chair. “I’m sorry but
you’ve taken me completely by surprise. Are you
hungry? Are you thirsty? Can I get you
something?” Before I could answer, he snatched
up the telephone again. “There’s somebody I
know,” he explained to me. “He’s a friend. He
can help you. I’m going to ask him to come.”

He dialled a number and as I sat down facing
him, uncomfortably close to the skeleton, he
spoke quickly into the receiver.

“It’s Dementyev. The boy is here. Yes … here
at the university.” He paused while the person at
the other end spoke to him. “We haven’t had a
chance to speak yet. I thought I should let you
know at once.” He was answering a question I
hadn’t heard. “He seems all right. Unharmed,
yes. We’ll wait for you here.”

He put the phone down and it seemed to me
that he was suddenly less agitated than he had
been when I had arrived – as if he had done what
was expected of him. For some reason, I was
feeling uneasy. By the look of it, Professor De-
mentyev wasn’t pleased to see me. I was a danger
to him. This was my parents’ closest friend but I
was beginning to wonder how much that friend-
ship was worth.

160/621

“How did you know who I was?” I asked.
“I’ve been expecting you, ever since I heard
about what happened. And I recognized you,
Yasha. You look very much like your mother. I
saw the two of you together a few times when

you were very young. You won’t remember me.
It was before your parents left Moscow.”

“Why did they leave? What happened? You

161/621

worked with them.”

“I worked with your father. Yes.”
“Do you know that he’s dead?”
“I didn’t know for certain. I’m sorry to hear it.

He and I were friends.”

“So tell me—”
“Are you sure I can’t get you something?”
I had eaten and drunk everything I needed at
Kazansky Station. What I really wanted was to
be away from here. I have to say that I was disap-
pointed by Misha Dementyev. I’m not sure what
I’d been expecting, but maybe he could have
been more affectionate, like a long-lost uncle or
something? He hadn’t even come out from be-
hind his desk.

“What happened?” I asked again. “Why was

my father sent to work in Estrov?”

“I can’t go through all

that now.” He was

flustered again. “Later…”

162/621

“Please, Professor Dementyev!”
“All right. All right.” He looked at me as if he
was wondering if he could trust me. Then he
began. “Your father was a genius. He and I
worked here together in this department. We
were young students; idealists, excited. We were
researching endospores … and one in particular.
Anthrax. I don’t suppose you know very much
about that.”

“I know about anthrax,” I said.
“We thought we could change the world …
your father especially. He was looking at ways to
prevent the infection of sheep and cattle. But
there was an accident. Working in the laboratory
together, we created a form of anthrax that was
much faster and deadlier than anything anyone
had ever known. It had no cure. Antibiotics were
useless against it.”

“It was a weapon?”
“That wasn’t our intention. That wasn’t what
we wanted. But – yes. It was the perfect biologic-
al weapon. And of course the government found

out about it. Everything that happens in this place
they know about. It was true then. It’s true now.
They heard about our work here and they came to
us and ordered us to develop it for military use.”
Dementyev took out a handkerchief and used it to
polish the lenses of his glasses. He put them back
on. “Your father refused. It was the last thing he
wanted. So they started to put the pressure on.
They threatened him. And that was when he did
something incredibly brave … or incredibly stu-
pid. He went to a journalist and tried to get the
story into the newspapers.

“He was arrested at once. I was here, in the
laboratory, when they marched him away. They
arrested your mother too.”

“How old was I?” I asked.
“You were two. And – I’m sorry, Yasha – they
used you to get at your parents. That was how
they worked. It was very simple. If your parents
didn’t do what they were told, they would never
see you again. What choice did they have? They
were
the

to Estrov,

to work

163/621

sent

in

164/621

factory. They were forced to produce the new an-
thrax. That was the deal. Stay silent. And live.”

So everything – my parents’ life or their non-
life as prisoners in a remote village, the little
house, the boredom and the poverty – had been
for me. I wasn’t sure how that made me feel. Was
I to blame for everything that had happened?
Was I the one who had destroyed their lives?

“Yasha…” Dementyev stood up and came
over to me. He was much taller than I had expec-
ted now that he was on his feet. He loomed over
me. “Were you inoculated?” he asked.

I nodded. “My parents were shot at when they
escaped. But they stole a syringe. They injected
me.”

“I knew your father had been working on an
antidote. Thank God! But I guessed it the mo-
ment I saw you. Otherwise you would have been
dead a long time ago.”

“My best friend died,” I said.
“I’m so sorry. Anton and Eva – your parents –

were my friends too.”

You’ll be well looked after.”

“Who was that you called?”
“It was a friend. Someone we can trust. He’ll

be here very soon.”

We fell silent. He was still standing there, one

165/621

hand on the back of my chair.

“What will happen to me?” I asked.
“You don’t need to worry any more, Yasha.

There was something wrong. Things that he’d
told me just didn’t add up. I was about to speak
when I heard the sound of sirens, police cars ap-
proaching, still far away but drawing nearer. And
I knew instantly that there was no friend, that De-
mentyev had called them. It wasn’t detective
work. I could have asked him why my parents
had been sent to live in Estrov while he had been
allowed to stay here. I could have played back
the conversation he’d had on the telephone, how
he had referred to me simply as “the boy”. Not
Yasha. Not Anton’s son. The people at the other
end knew who I was because they’d been expect-
ing me to show up, waiting for me. I could have

166/621

worked it out but I didn’t need to. I saw it all in
his eyes.

“Why?” I asked.
He didn’t even try to deny it. “I’m sorry,
Yasha,” he said. “But nobody can know. We
have to keep it secret.”

We. The factory managers. The helicopter pi-
lots. The militia. The government. And De-
mentyev. They were all in it together.

I scrabbled to my feet – or tried to. But De-
mentyev was ahead of me. He pounced down, his
hands on my shoulders, using his weight to pin
me to the seat. For a moment his face was close
to mine, the eyes staring at me through the thick
lenses.

“There’s nowhere you can go!” he hissed. “I

promise you … they won’t treat you badly.”

“They’ll kill me!” I shouted back. “They killed

everyone!”

safe…”

“I’ll talk to them. They’ll take you somewhere

Yes. I saw it already. A prison or a mental

asylum, somewhere I’d never be seen again.

I couldn’t move. Dementyev was too strong
for me. And the police cars were getting closer.
We were twenty-four floors up but I could hear
the sirens cutting through the air. And then I had
an idea. I forced myself to relax.

“You can’t do this!” I exclaimed. “My father
gave me something for you. He said it was very
valuable. He said if I gave it to you, you’d have
to help me.”

167/621

“What is it?”
“I don’t know. It’s in a bag. It’s in my pocket!”
“Show me.”
He let go of one of my shoulders … but only
one of them. I still couldn’t wrench myself free. I
was sitting down. He was standing over me and
he was twice my size.

“Take it out,” he said.
The police must have turned into the main uni-

versity drive. I heard car doors slam shut.

168/621

Using my one free arm, I drew out the black
bag that my mother had given me. At least Dima
and his friends hadn’t stolen it when they took
my money. I placed it on the desk. And it worked
just as I’d hoped. Dementyev still didn’t let go of
me but his grip loosened as he reached out and
opened the bag. I saw his face change as he
tipped out the contents.
“What…?” he began.
I jerked myself free, throwing the chair back-
wards. As it toppled over, I managed to get to my
feet. Dementyev swung round but he was too late
to stop me lashing out with my fist. I knocked the
glasses off his face. He fell back against the desk
but then recovered and seized hold of me again. I
needed a weapon and there was only one that I
could see. I reached out and grabbed the arm of
the skeleton, wrenching it free from the shoulder.
The hand and the wrist dangled down but I hung
onto the upper bone – the humerus – and used it
as a club, smashing it against Dementyev’s head
again and again until, with a howl, he fell back.

I twisted away. Dementyev had crumpled over
the desk. There was blood streaming down his
face.

“It’s too late…” he stammered. “You won’t

169/621

get away.”

I snatched back the jewellery and tumbled out
of the office. There was nobody outside. Surely
someone must have heard what had happened? I
didn’t want to know. I ran to the lift. It was
already on the way up and it took me a few
seconds to work out that the police were almost
certainly inside, travelling towards me. And I
might have been caught standing there, waiting
for them! I continued down the corridor and
found a fire exit – leading to twenty-four flights
of stairs. I didn’t stop until I reached the bottom
and it was only then that I realized I was still car-
rying the skeleton’s arm. I found a dustbin,
picked up some loose papers and dropped the
arm in.

As I walked down the steps at the front door,
I saw three police cars parked there with their

170/621

lights flashing. I pretended to be immersed in the
papers I had taken. If there were any policemen
outside, I would look like one more of the count-
less students coming in and out.

But nobody stopped me. I hurried back to the
station with just one thought in my head. I was
alone in Moscow with no money.

ТВЕРСКАЯ

TVERSKAYA

I went back to Kazansky Station.

In a way, it was a mad decision. The police
knew I was in Moscow and they would certainly
be watching all the major stations – just as they
had in Rosna and Kirsk. But I wasn’t leaving.
The truth was that in the whole of Russia, I had
nowhere to go and no one to look after me. I
couldn’t go back to Estrov, obviously, and al-
though I remembered my mother once telling me
that she had relations in a city called Kazan, I had
no idea where it was or how to get there.

No, it was much better to stay in Moscow, but
first of all I would need to change my appear-
ance. That was easy enough. I stripped off my
Pioneer uniform and dumped it in a bin. Then I

173/621

got my hair cut short. Although the bulk of my
money had gone, I had managed to find eighteen
kopecks scattered through my pockets and I used
nine of them at a barber’s shop, a dank little
place in a backstreet with old hair strewn over the
floor. As I stepped out again, feeling the unfamil-
iar cool of the breeze on my head and the back of
my neck, a police car rushed past – but I wasn’t
worried. Even today, I am aware of how little
you need to change to lose yourself in a city. A
haircut, different clothes, perhaps a pair of
sunglasses … it is enough.

I still had enough kopecks for the return jour-
ney and as I sat once again in the Metro, I tried to
work out some sort of plan. The most immediate
problem was accommodation. Where would I
sleep when night came? If I stayed out on the
street, I would be at my most vulnerable. And
then there was the question of food. Without
money, I couldn’t eat. Of course, I could steal but
the one thing I most dreaded was falling back in-
to the hands of the police. If they recognized me,

I was finished. And even if they didn’t, I had
heard enough stories about the prison camps all
over Russia, built specially for children. Did I
want to end up with the rest of my hair shaved
off, stuck behind barbed wire in the middle of
nowhere? There were thousands of Russian boys
whose lives were exactly that.

This time I barely even noticed the stations, no
matter how superbly they were decorated. I was
utterly miserable. My parents had believed in
Misha Dementyev and they had sent me to him,
even though it had cost them their lives. But the
moment I had walked into his office, he had
thought only of saving his own skin. It seemed to
me that there was nobody in the world I could
trust. Even Dima, the boy I had met when I got
off the train, had only been interested in robbing
me.

174/621

But perhaps Dima was the answer.
The more I thought about it, the more I de-
cided he might not be all bad. Certainly, when we
had met, he had been pleasant enough, smiling

and friendly, even if he was simply setting me
up for his friends. But maybe I was partly to
blame for what had happened, coming off the
train and flashing my money around all the dif-
ferent stalls. Dima was living on the street. He
had to survive. I’d made myself an obvious target
and he’d done what he had to.

At the same time, I remembered what he’d
said to me. It’s good to have a friend. We all
need friends. Could it be possible that he actually
meant it? He was, after all, only a few years older
than me and we were both in the same situation.
Part of me knew that I was fooling myself. Dima
was probably miles away by now, laughing at me
for being such a fool. But at the end of the day,
he was the only person in the city I actually
knew. If I could find him again, perhaps I could
persuade him to help me.

And there was something else. I still had my

175/621

mother’s jewels.

Half an hour later, I climbed up to street level
and found myself back where I had begun. The

176/621

women were still there at their food stalls but
they almost seemed to be taunting me. Before,
they had been welcoming. Now, all their pies and
ice creams were beyond my reach. I found a
bench and sat down, watching the crowds around
me. Stations are strange places. When you pass
through them, travelling somewhere, you barely
notice them. They simply help you on your way.
But stand outside with nowhere to go and they
make you feel worthless. You should not be here,
they shout at you. If you are not a passenger, you
do not belong here.

To start with, I did nothing at all. I just sat
there, staring at the traffic, letting people stream
past me on all sides. The children I had seen were
still dotted around and I wondered what they
would do with themselves when night fell. That
could only be a few hours away. The light was
barely changing,
the sun trapped behind un-
broken cloud, but there were already commuters
arriving at the station, on their way home. There
was no sign of Dima. In the end, I went over to a

couple of boys, the ten-year-olds that I had seen
before.

177/621

“Excuse me,” I said.
Two pairs of very sly and malevolent eyes
turned on me. One of the children had snot run-
ning out of his nose. Both of them looked worn
out, unhealthy.

“I’m looking for someone I was talking to
earlier,” I went on. “He was wearing a black
leather jacket. His name is Dima.”

The boys glanced at each other. “You got any

money?” one of them asked.

“No.”
“Then get

lost!” Those weren’t his actual
words. This little boy, whose voice hadn’t even
broken, used the filthiest language I’d ever heard.
I saw that he had terrible teeth with gaps where
half of them had fallen out. His friend hissed at
me like an animal and at that moment the two of
them weren’t children at all. They were like hor-
rible old men, not even human. I was glad to
leave them on their own.

178/621

I tried to ask some of the other street kids the
same question but as I approached them, they
moved away. It was as if they all knew that I was
from out of town, that I wasn’t one of them, and
for that reason they would have nothing to do
with me. And now the light really was beginning
to disappear. I was starting to feel the threat of
nightfall and knew that I couldn’t stay here for
much longer. I would have to find a doorway – or
perhaps I could sleep in one of the subways be-
neath the streets. I had four kopecks left in my
pocket. Barely enough for a cup of hot tea.

And then, quite unexpectedly,

I saw him.
Dima – with his oversized leather jacket and his
half-handsome, half-ugly face – had turned
the corner, smoking a cigarette, flicking away the
match. There was another boy with him and I re-
cognized him too. He had been one of the two
who had robbed me. Dima said something and
they laughed. It looked as if they were heading
for the Metro, presumably on their way home.

179/621

I didn’t hesitate. It was now or never. I crossed
the concourse in front of the station and stood in
their path.

Dima saw me first and stopped with the cigar-
ette halfway to his lips. I had taken him by sur-
prise and he thought I was going to make trouble.
I could see it at once. He was tense, wary. But I
was completely relaxed. I’d already worked it
out. He’d tricked me. He’d robbed me. But I had
to treat him as my friend.

“Hi, Dima.” I greeted him as if the three of us

had arranged to meet here for coffee.

He smiled a little but he was still suspicious.
And there was something else. I wasn’t quite sure
what it was but he was looking at me almost as if
he had expected me to come back, as if there was
something he knew that I didn’t. “Soldier!” he
exclaimed. “How are you doing? What happened
to your hair?”

“I got it cut.”
“Did you meet your friend?”

Moscow.”

“That’s too bad.”
I nodded. “In fact, I’ve got a real problem. He
was going to put me up but now I don’t have
anywhere to go.”

I was hoping he might offer to help. That was
the idea, anyway. Why not? He was seventy
rubles richer than me. Thanks to him, I had noth-
ing. He could at least have offered me a bed for
the night. But he didn’t speak and I realized I was
wasting my time. He was street-hardened, the
sort of person who would have never helped any-
one in his life. His friend muttered something and
pushed past me, disappearing into the Metro, but
I stood my ground. “Can you help me?” I said. “I
just need somewhere to stay for a few nights.”
And then – my last chance. “I can pay you.”

“You’ve got money?” That surprised him. He

“No. He wasn’t

there.

It seems he’s left

180/621

thought he’d taken it all already.

“Not any more,” I said. I shrugged as if to let
him know that it didn’t matter, that I’d already

181/621

forgotten about it. “But I’ve got this.” I went on.
I took out the black velvet bag that my mother
had given me and that I’d used to trick De-
mentyev. I opened it and poured the contents –
the necklace, the ring and the earrings – into my
hand. “There must be a pawnshop somewhere.
I’ll sell them and then I can pay you for a room.”
Dima examined the jewellery, the brightly col-
oured stones in their silver and gold settings, and
I could already see the light stirring in his eyes as
he made the calculations. How much were they
worth and how was he going to separate them
from me? He dropped his cigarette and reached
out, picking up one of the earrings. He let it hang
from his finger and thumb. “This won’t get you
much,” he said. “It’s cheap.”

Right then, I thought of my mother and I could
feel the anger rising in my blood. I wanted to
punch him but still I forced myself to stay calm.
“I was told they were valuable,” I said. “That’s
gold. And those stones are emeralds. Take me to
a pawnshop and we can find out.”

182/621

“I don’t know…” He was pretending otherwise
but he knew that the jewels were worth more
than the money he had already stolen. “Give me
the stuff and I’ll take it to a pawnbroker for you.
But I don’t
think you’ll get more than five
rubles.”

first.”

He’d get fifty. I’d get five … if I was lucky.
I could see how his mind worked. I held out my
hand and, reluctantly, he gave me the earring
back. “I can find a pawnbroker on my own,”
I said.

“There’s no need to be like that, soldier! I’m
only trying to help.” He gave me a crooked
smile, made all the more crooked by his broken
nose. “Listen, I’ve got a room and you’re wel-
come to stay with me. You know … we’re all
friends, here in Moscow, right? But you’ll have
to pay rent.”

“How much rent?”
“Two rubles a week.”
I pretended to consider. “I’ll have to see it

“Whatever you say. We can go there now if

183/621

you like.”

“Sure. Why not?”
He took me back down into the Metro. He
even paid my fare again. I knew I was taking a
risk. He could lead me to some faraway corner of
the city, take me into an alleyway, put a knife in-
to me and steal the jewels. But I had a feeling
that wasn’t the way he worked. Dima was a hust-
ler, a thief – but at the end of the day, he just
didn’t have the look of someone who was ready
to kill. He would get the jewellery in the end any-
way. I would pay it to him as rent or he would
steal
it from me while I slept. My plan was
simply to make myself useful to him, to become
part of his gang. If I could do this quickly
enough, he might let me stay with him, even
when I had nothing more to give. That was my
hope.

He took me to a place just off Tverskaya
Street, one of the main thoroughfares in Moscow,
which leads all the way down to the Kremlin and

184/621

Red Square. Today, there is a hotel on that same
corner – the nine-storey Marriott Grand, where
American tourists stay in total luxury. But when I
came there, following Dima and still wondering
if I wasn’t making another bad mistake, it was
very different. Moscow has changed so much, so
quickly. It was another world back then.

Dima lived in what had once been a block of
flats but which had long been abandoned and left
to rot. All the colour had faded from the brick-
work, which was damp and mouldy, and covered
with graffiti – not artwork but political slogans,
swear words, and the names of city football
teams. The windows were so dirty that
they
looked more like rusting metal than glass. The
building rose up twelve floors, three more than
the hotel that would one day replace it, and whole
thing seemed to be sagging in on itself, hardly
bothering to stay upright. It was surrounded by
other blocks that were similar … they looked like
old men standing out in the cold, having a last ci-
garette together before they died. The streets here

185/621

were very narrow; more like alleyways, twisting
together in the darkness, covered with rubbish
and mud. The block of flats had shops on the
ground floor – an empty grocery store, a chemist
and a massage parlour – but the further up you
went, the more desolate it became. It had no lifts,
of course. Just a concrete staircase that had been
used as a toilet so many times that it stank. By
the time you got to the top, there was no electri-
city, no proper heating. The only water came
dribbling, cold, out of the taps.

We climbed up together. I noticed that Dima
was wheezing when we got to the top and I
wondered if he was ill – although it could just
have been all those cigarettes. On the way, we
passed a couple of people, a man and a woman,
lying on top of each other, unconscious.
I
couldn’t even be sure they were actually alive.
Dima just stepped over them and I did the same,
wondering what I was getting myself into. My
village had been a place of poverty and hardship

but it was somehow more shocking here, in the
middle of a city.

186/621

Dima’s room was on the eighth floor. Since
there was no lighting, he had taken out a torch
and used it to find the way. We went down a cor-
ridor that was missing its carpet with gaping
holes showing the pipework and wiring. There
were doors on either side, most of them locked,
one or two reinforced with metal plating. Some-
where,
I could hear a baby crying. A man
shouted out a swear word. Another laughed. The
sounds that echoed around me only added to the
nightmare, the sense that I was being sucked into
a dark and alien world.

“This is me,” Dima said.
We’d come to a door marked with a number
83. Somebody had added DIMA’S PLACE in
bright red letters but the paint hadn’t been al-
lowed to dry and it had trickled down like blood.
Perhaps the effect was deliberate. There was a
hole where the lock should have been but Dima
used a padlock and a chain to keep the place

secure. At the moment, it was hanging open. His
friends had arrived ahead of us.

“Welcome home!” he said to me. “This is my

187/621

place. Come in and meet my mates…”

He pushed the door open. We went in.
The flat was tiny. Most of it was in a single
room, which he shared with the two boys who
had robbed me. On the floor were three mat-
tresses and some filthy pillows on a carpet which
was mouldy and colourless. The place was lit by
candles and my first thought was that if one of
them toppled over in the night, we would all burn
to death. A single table and four chairs stood on
one side. Otherwise there was no furniture of any
description. A few bits of the kitchen were still in
place but I could tell at a glance that the sink
hadn’t been used for years and without electricity
the fridge was no more than an oversized cup-
board. The smell in the room was unpleasant; a
mixture of human sweat, unwashed clothes, dirt
and decay.

188/621

Dima waved me over to the table. “This is
Yasha,” he announced. “He’s going to be staying
with us for a while.” His two friends were
already sitting there playing Snap with a deck
that was so worn that the cards hung limp in their
hands. They didn’t look pleased as I joined them.
“He’s going to pay,” Dima added. “Two rubles a
week.”

Dima opened the fridge and took out a bottle
of vodka and some black bread. He found some
dirty glasses in the sink and poured drinks for us
all. He lit a cigarette for himself, then offered me
one, which I accepted gratefully. It wasn’t just
that I wanted to smoke. It was a gesture of friend-
ship and that was what I most needed.

Dima introduced the two boys. “This is Ro-
man. That’s Grigory.” Roman was tall and thin.
He looked as
if he had been deliberately
stretched. Grigory was round-faced, pock-marked
with oily, black hair. All three of them looked not
just adult but old, as if they had forgotten their
true age … which was about seventeen. Roman

collected the cards and put them away. It was ob-
vious who was the leader here. So long as Dima
said I could stay, they weren’t going to argue.

“Tell us about yourself, soldier,” Dima said.
“I’d like to know what brought you to Moscow.”
He winked at me. “And I’d particularly like to
know why the police are so interested in you.”

“What?”
So I’d been right. When I’d got back to the sta-
tion I’d thought the children had been behaving
strangely and now I knew why. The police had
been there, looking for me.

189/621

“That’s right. Tell him, Grig.” Grigory said
nothing so Dima went on. “They’re looking for
someone new to town. Someone who might have
come into Kazansky Station, dressed up like a
Young Pioneer. They’ve been asking everyone.”
He tapped ash. “They’re offering a reward for
information.”

My heart sank. I wondered if I had walked into
another trap. Had Dima invited me here to have
me arrested? But there was no sound coming

190/621

from outside; no footsteps in the corridor, no
sirens in the street.

“Don’t worry, soldier! No one’s going to turn
you in. Not even for the money. They never pay
up anyway.

“I hate the p–p–p–police.” Roman had a stut-
ter. I watched his face contort as he tried to spit
out the last word.

“What do they want with you?” Grigory asked.
He sounded hostile. Maybe he was afraid that I
was bringing more trouble into his life. He prob-
ably had enough already.

I wasn’t sure how to answer. I didn’t want to
lie but I was afraid of telling the truth. In the end,
I kept it as short as I could. “They killed my par-
ents,” I said. “My dad knew something he wasn’t
meant to know. They wanted to kill me too. I
escaped.”

“What about your friend at the university?”

Dima asked.

“He wasn’t my friend.” I was on safer ground
here. I told them everything that had happened in

Misha Dementyev’s office. When I described
how I had beaten Dementyev off using the arm of
the skeleton, Dima laughed out loud. “I wish I’d
seen that,” he said. “You certainly gave him the
elbow!”

It was a weak joke but we all laughed. Dima
refilled our glasses and once again we drank the
Russian way, throwing the liquid back in a single
gulp. It didn’t take us long to finish the bottle and
about an hour later we all went to bed … if you
can call bed a square of carpet with a pile of old
clothes as a pillow. I was just glad to have a roof
over my head and, helped by the vodka, I was
asleep almost at once.

191/621

The next morning, Dima took me to the pawn-
broker he had mentioned. It was a tiny shop with
a cracked front window and an old, half-shaven
man sitting behind a counter that was stacked
with watches and jewellery. I handed across my
mother’s earrings and stood there, watching him
examine them briefly through an eyeglass which
he screwed into his face as if it was part of him.

192/621

Right then, a little part of me died. It had been a
pawnbroker that the hero had murdered in Crime
and Punishment, the book I had been forced to
read at
I could almost have done
the same.

school.

He wanted to give me eight rubles for the ear-
rings but Dima talked him up to twelve. The two
of them knew each other well.

“You’re a crook, Reznik,” Dima scowled.
“And you’re a thief, Dima,” Reznik replied.
“One day someone will stick a knife in you.”
“I don’t mind. So long as they buy it from me

first.”

Dima took the money and we went back out
into the sunlight. He gave me three rubles, keep-
ing nine for himself, and when I looked down re-
proachfully at the crumpled notes he clapped me
on the back. “That’s three weeks’ rent, soldier,”
he said.

“What about the other three rubles?”

193/621

“That’s my commission. If you hadn’t had me
with you, that old crook would have ripped you
off.”

I’d been ripped off anyway but I didn’t com-
plain. Dima had said I could stay with him for
three weeks. It was exactly what I wanted to
hear.

“Let’s get some breakfast!” he said.
We ate breakfast in the smallest, grimiest res-
taurant it would be possible to imagine. Some-
how, I ended up paying for that too.

So began my stay in Moscow. I adapted very
quickly to the way of life. The truth is that
nobody did anything very much. They stole, they
ate, they survived. I spent long hours outside the
station with Dima, Roman and Grigory. The two
boys didn’t warm to me but gradually they began
to accept that I was there. At the same time,
Dima had made me his
I
wondered if he might have had a younger brother
at some time. He never spoke about his past life
but that was how he treated me. When I write

special project.

about him now, I still see him with the sleeves of
his precious leather jacket falling over his hands,
his smile, the way he swaggered along the street,
and I wonder if he is alive or dead. Dead most
probably. Homeless kids in Moscow never sur-
vived long.

Dima taught me how to beg. You had to be
careful because if the police saw you they would
pick you up and throw you into jail. But my fair
hair, and the fact that I looked so young, helped.
If I stood outside the Bolshoi Theatre at night, I
could earn as much as five rubles from the rich
people coming out. There were tourists in Red
Square and I would position myself outside St
Basil’s Cathedral with its towers and twisting,
multicoloured domes.
I didn’t even have to
speak. Once, an American gave me five dollars,
which I passed on to Dima. He gave me fifty ko-
pecks back but that was his own special exchange
rate. I knew it was worth a lot more.

194/621

I got used to the city. Streets that had seemed
huge and threatening became familiar. I could

195/621

find my way around on the Metro. I visited Len-
in, lying dead in his tomb, although Dima told
me that most of the body was made of wax. I also
saw the grave of Yuri Gagarin, the first man in
space. Not that he meant anything to me now. I
went to the big shops – GUM department store
and Yeliseev’s Food Hall and stared at all the
amazing food I would never be able to afford.
Just once, I visited a bathhouse near the Bolshoi
and enjoyed the total luxury of sitting in the
steam, breathing in the scent of eucalyptus leaves
and feeling warm and clean.

And I stole.
We needed to buy food, cigarettes and – most
importantly – vodka. It sometimes seemed that it
was impossible to live in Tverskaya without alco-
hol and every night there were terrible arguments
when somebody’s bottle was finished. We would
hear the screams and the knife fights, and the
next day there would often be fresh blood on
the stairs. Those who couldn’t afford vodka got
high on shoe polish. I’m not lying. They would

spread it on bread and place it on a hot pipe, then
breathe in the fumes.

No matter how much time I spent begging, we
never had enough money and I wasn’t surprised
to find myself back at Reznik’s, the pawnshop.
With Dima’s help, I got fifteen rubles for my
mother’s necklace; more than the earrings but
less than I’d hoped. I was determined not to part
with her ring. It was the only memory of her that
I had left.

196/621

And so, inevitably, I turned to crime. One of
Dima’s favourite tricks was to hang around out-
side an expensive shop, watching as the custom-
ers came out with their groceries. He would wait
while they loaded up their car, then either Roman
or Grigory would distract them while he snatched
as much as he could out of the boot and then ran
for it. I watched the operation a couple of times
before Dima let me play the part of the decoy.
Because I was so much younger than the other
two boys, people were more sympathetic – and
less suspicious. I would go up to them and

pretend to be lost while Dima sneaked up to the
back of their car.

The first three times, it worked perfectly and
we found ourselves eating all sorts of things that
we’d never tasted before. Roman and Grigory
were getting used to me now. We’d begun play-
ing cards together – a game that every Russian
knows, called Durak or Fool. They’d even found
a mattress for me. It wasn’t a lot softer than the
floor and it was infested with insects, but I still
appreciated the gesture.

The fourth time, however, was almost a dis-

197/621

aster. And it changed everything.

It was the usual set-up. We were outside a
shop in a quiet street. It was an area we hadn’t
been to before. Our target was a chauffeur, obvi-
ously working for some big businessman who
could afford to entertain. His car was a Daimler
and there was enough food in the back to keep us
going for a month. As usual, I went up to the man
and, looking as innocent as possible, tried to en-
gage him in conversation.

“Can you help me? I’m looking for Pushkin

198/621

Square…”

Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Dima
scurry up the pavement and disappear behind the
raised door of the boot.

The chauffeur glared at me. “Get lost!”
“I am lost! I need to get to Pushkin Square…”
All I had to do was keep up the conversation
for about thirty seconds. By the end of that time,
Dima would have gone and two or three bags
would have gone with him. But suddenly I heard
him cry out and I saw, with complete horror, that
a policeman had appeared out of nowhere. To
this day I don’t know where he had come from
because we always checked the immediate area
first, but I can only assume that he’d been expect-
ing us, that the police must have decided to crack
down on this sort of street theft and that he had
been lying in wait all along. He was a huge man
with the neck and the shoulders of a professional
weightlifter. Dima was squirming in his jacket
but he was like a fish caught in a net.

199/621

I saw the chauffeur making a grab for me but I
ducked under his arms and ran round the back of
the car. There was nothing I could do for Dima.
The only sensible thing was to run away and
leave him and just be thankful I’d had a lucky es-
cape. But I couldn’t do it. Despite everything, I
was grateful to him. I had been with him for six
weeks now and he had protected me. I couldn’t
have
I owed him
something.

survived without him.

I threw myself at the policeman, who reacted
in astonishment. I was honestly less than half his
size and I barely even knocked him off balance.
He didn’t
let go of Dima … if anything he
tightened his grip, bellowing at the chauffeur to
come and join in. Dima lashed out with a fist but
the policeman didn’t feel it. With his spare hand,
he grabbed hold of my shirt so that we were both
held captive and, seeing us unarmed and helpless,
the chauffeur lumbered forward to help.

We would certainly have been taken prisoner
and that would have been the end of my Moscow

200/621

adventure. Indeed, if I were recognized, it might
be the end of my life. But as I struggled, I saw
that one of the shopping bags had fallen over,
spilling out its contents. There was a plastic bag
of red powder on the top. I snatched it up, split it
open and hurled it into the policeman’s face, all
in a single movement.

It was chilli powder. The policeman was in-
stantly blinded and howled in pain, both hands
rushing to cover his eyes. Dima was forgotten. In
fact everything was forgotten. The policeman’s
head was covered in red powder. He was spin-
ning round on his feet. I grabbed Dima and the
two of us began to run. At the same moment, a
police car appeared at the far end of the street,
speeding towards us, its lights blazing. We ran
across the pavement and down a narrow alleyway
between two shops. It was a cul-de-sac, blocked
at the far end by a wall. We didn’t let it stop us,
not for a second. We simply sprinted up the
brickwork and over the top, crashing down onto
an assortment of dustbins and cardboard boxes

201/621

on the other side. Dima rolled over then got
back on his feet. We could hear the siren behind
us and knew that the police were only seconds
away. We kept running – down another alleyway
and across a main road with six lanes of traffic
and cars, trucks, motorbikes and buses bearing
down on us from every direction. It’s a miracle
we weren’t killed. As it was, one car swerved out
of our way and there was a screech and a crump-
ling of metal as a second car crashed into it. We
didn’t slow down. We didn’t look back. We must
have run half a mile across Moscow, ducking in-
to side roads, chasing behind buildings, doing
everything we could to keep out of sight. Eventu-
ally we came to a Metro entrance and darted into
it, disappearing underground. There was a train
waiting at the platform. We didn’t care where it
was going. We dived in and sank, exhausted, into
two seats.

Neither of us spoke again until we got back to
our own station and climbed back up to our fa-
miliar streets. We didn’t go to the flat straight

202/621

away. Dima took me to a coffee house and we
bought a couple of glasses of kvass, a sweet, wa-
tery drink made from bread.

We sat next to the window. We were both still
out of breath. I could hear Dima’s lungs rattling.
Climbing the stairs was enough exercise for him
and he had just run a marathon.

“Thank you, soldier,” he said eventually.
“We were unlucky,” I said.
“I was lucky you were there. You could have

just left me.”

I didn’t say anything.
“I hate this stupid city,” Dima said. “I never

wanted to come here.”

“Why did you?”
“I don’t know.” He shrugged, then pointed to
his broken nose. “My dad did this to me when I
was six years old. He threw me out when I was
seven. I ended up in an orphanage in Yaroslav
and that was a horrible place … horrible. You
don’t want to know.” He took out a cigarette and
lit it. “They used to tie the kids down to the beds,

203/621

the troublemakers. They left them there until they
were covered in their own dirt. And the noise!
The screaming, the crying… It never stopped.
I think half of them were mad.”
“Were you adopted?” I asked.
“Nobody wanted me. Not the way I looked. I
ran away. Got out of Yaroslav and ended up on a
train to Moscow … just like you.”

He fell silent.
“There’s something I want you to know,” he
said. “That first day we met, at Kazansky Sta-
tion.” He took a drag on his cigarette and exhaled
blue smoke. “We took your money. It was Ro-
man, Grig and me. We set you up.”

“I know,” I said.
He looked at me. “I thought you must have.

the same.”

as us.”

But now I’m admitting it … OK?”

“It doesn’t matter,” I went on. “I’d have done

“I don’t think so, soldier. You’re not the same

“I like being with you,” I said. “But there’s

204/621

something I want to ask.”

“Go ahead.”
“Do you mind not calling me ‘soldier’?”
He nodded. “Whatever you say, Yasha.”
He patted me on the shoulder. We finished our
drinks, stood up and went home. And it seemed
to me that I’d actually done what I’d set out to
do. The two of us were friends.

ФОРТОЧНИК

FORTOCHNIK

For the next few days, we barely left the flat.
Dima was worried the police would be looking
for us and I also had my concerns. Forget Estrov.
I was now wanted for theft and for assaulting a
police officer. It was better for us not to show our
faces in the street and so we ate, drank, played
cards … and we were bored. We were also run-
ning out of cash. I never asked Dima what he had
done with the rubles he had taken from me and it
wasn’t as if we were spending a lot of money but
somehow there was never enough for our basic
needs. Roman and Grigory brought
in a few
rubles now and then but the truth is that they
were too unattractive to have much success

207/621

begging and Roman’s stutter made it hard for
him to ask for money.

Even so, it was Roman who suggested it one

night. “We should try b–b–b–burglary.”

We were sitting around the table with vodka
and cards. All we had eaten that day was a couple
of slices of black bread. The four of us were
looking ill. We needed proper food and sunlight.
I had got used to the smell in the room by now –
in fact I was part of it. But the place was looking
grimier than ever and we longed to be outside.

“Who are we going to b–b–burgle?” Dima

asked.

Roman shrugged.
“It’s a good idea,” Grigory said. He slapped
down an attack card – we were having another
bout of Durak. “Yasha is small enough. He could
be our fortochnik.”

“What’s a fortochnik?” I asked.
Dima rolled his eyes. “It’s someone who

breaks in through a fortochka,” he explained.

208/621

That, at least, I understood. A fortochka was a
type of window. Many apartments in Moscow
had them before air conditioning took over.
There would be a large window and then a much
smaller one set inside it, a bit like a cat flap. In
the summer months, people would open the for-
tochkas to let in the breeze and, of course, they
were an invitation for thieves … provided they
were small enough. Grigory was right. He was
too fat and Roman was too ungainly to crawl
through, but I could make it easily. I was small
for my age – and I’d lost so much weight that I
was stick-thin.

“It is a good idea,” Dima agreed. “But we need
an address. There’s no point just breaking in any-
where, and anyway, it’s too dangerous. His eyes
brightened. “We can talk to Fagin!”

Fagin was an old soldier who lived three floors
down in a room on his own. He had been in
Afghanistan and had lost one eye and half his left
arm – in action, he claimed, although there was a
rumour he had been run over by a trolleybus

209/621

while he was home on leave. Fagin wasn’t his
real name, of course but everyone called him that
after a character in an English book, Oliver Twist.
And the thing about Fagin was that he knew
everything about everything. I never found out
how he got his information but if a bank was
about to move a load of money or a diamond
merchant was about to visit a smart hotel, some-
how Fagin would catch wind of it and he would
pass the information on – at a price. Everyone in
the block respected him. I had seen him a couple
of times, a short, plump man with a huge beard
bristling around his chin, shuffling along the cor-
ridors in a dirty coat, and I had thought he looked
more like a tramp than a master criminal.

But now that Dima had thought of him, the de-
cision had been made and the following day we
gathered in his flat, which was the same size as
ours but at least furnished with a sofa and a few
pictures on the wall. He had electricity too. Fagin
himself was a disgusting old man. The way he
looked at us, you didn’t really want
to think

about what was going on in his head. If Santa
Claus had taken a dive into a sewer he would
have come up looking much the same.

“You want to be fortochniks?” he asked, smil-
ing to himself. “Then you want to do it soon be-
fore the winter comes and all the windows are
closed! But you need an address. That’s what you
need, my boys. Somewhere worth the pickings!”
He produced a leather notebook with old bus
tickets and receipts sticking out of the pages. He
opened it and began to thumb through.

210/621

“How much is your share?” Dima asked.
“Always straight to the point, Dimitry. That’s
what I like about you.” Fagin smiled. “Whatever
you take, you bring to me. No lying! I know a lie
when I hear one and, believe me, I’ll cut out your
tongue.” He leered at us, showing the yellow
slabs that were his teeth. “Sixty per cent for me,
forty for you. Please don’t argue with me,
Dimitry, dear boy. You won’t get better any-
where else. And I have the addresses. I know all

the places where you won’t have any difficulty.
Nice, slim boys, slipping in at night…”

“Fifty-fifty,” Dima said.
“Fagin doesn’t negotiate.” He found a page in
his notebook. “Now here’s an address off Luby-
anka Square. Ground-floor flat.” He looked up.
“Shall I go on?”

Dima nodded. He had accepted the deal.

211/621

“Where is it?”

“Mashkova Street. Number seven. It’s owned
by a rich banker. He collects stamps. Many of
them valuable.” He flicked the page over.
“Maybe you’d prefer a house in the Old Arbat.
Lots of antiques. Mind you, it was done over last
spring and I’d say it was a bit early for a return
visit.” Another page. “Ah yes. I’ve had my eye
on this place for a while. It’s near Gorky Park …
fourth floor and quite an easy climb. Mind you,
it’s owned by Vladimir Sharkovsky. Might be too
much of a risk. How about Ilinka Street? Ah yes!
That’s perfect. Nice and easy. Number sixteen.
Plenty of cash, jewellery…”

212/621

“Tell me about the flat in Gorky Park,” I said.
Dima turned to me, surprised. But it was the
name that had done it. Sharkovsky. I had heard it
before. I remembered the time when I entered
Dementyev’s office at Moscow State University.
I had heard him talking on the telephone.

Yes, of course, Mr Sharkovsky. Yes, sir. Thank

you, sir.

“Who is Sharkovsky?” I asked.
“He’s a businessman,” Fagin said. “But rich.
Very, very rich. And quite dangerous, so I’m
told. Not the sort of man you’d want to meet on a
dark night and certainly not if you were stealing
from him.”

“I want to go there,” I said.
“Why?” Dima asked.
“Because I know him. At least … I heard his

name.”

At that moment, it seemed almost like a gift.
Misha Dementyev was my enemy. He had tried
to hand me over to the police. He had lied to my
parents. And it sounded as if he was working for

this man, Sharkovsky – assuming it was the same
Sharkovsky. So robbing his flat made perfect
sense. It was like a miniature revenge.

213/621

Fagin snapped the notebook shut. We had
made our decision and it didn’t matter which ad-
dress we chose. “It won’t be so difficult,” he
muttered. “Fourth floor. Quiet street. Sharkovsky
doesn’t actually live there. He keeps the place for
a friend, an actress.” He leered at us in a way that
suggested she was much more than a friend.
“She’s away a lot. It could be empty. I’ll check.”
Fagin was as good as his word. The following
day he provided us with the information we
needed. The actress was performing in a play
called The Cherry Orchard and wouldn’t be back
in Moscow until the end of the month. The flat
was deserted but the fortochka was open.

“Go for the things you can carry,” he sugges-
ted. “Jewellery. Furs. Mink and sable are easy to
shift. TVs and stuff like that … leave them
behind.”

214/621

We set off that same night, skirting round
the walls of the Kremlin and crossing the river
on the Krymsky Bridge. I thought I would be
nervous. This was my first real crime – very dif-
ferent from the antics that Leo and I had got up to
during the summer, setting off schoolboy bombs
outside the police station or pinching cigarettes.
Even stealing from the back of parked cars
wasn’t in the same league. But the strange thing
was that I was completely calm. It struck me that
I might have found my destiny. If I could learn to
survive in Moscow by being a thief, that was the
way it would have to be.

Gorky Park is a huge area on the edge of the
Moscow River. With a fairground, boating lakes
and even an open-air theatre, it’s always been a
favourite place for the people in the city. Anyone
who had a flat here would have to be rich. The air
was cleaner and if you were high enough you’d
get views across the trees and over to the river,
where barges and pleasure boats cruised slowly
past, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, another

Stalin skyscraper, in the far distance. The flat that
Fagin had identified was right next to the park in
a quiet street that hardly seemed to belong to the
city at all. It was too elegant. Too expensive.

215/621

We got there just before midnight but all the
street lamps were lit and I was able to make out a
very attractive building, made of cream-coloured
stone, with arched doorways and windows and
lots of decoration over the walls. It was smaller
and neater than our apartment block, just four
storeys high, with a slanting orange-tiled roof.

“That’s the window – up there.”
Dima pointed. The flat was on the top floor,
just as Fagin had said, and sure enough I could
the fortochka, which was actually
make out
slightly ajar. The woman who lived there might
have thought she was safe, being so high up, but I
saw at once that it would be possible to climb in,
using the building’s adornments as footholds.
There were ledges, windowsills, carved pillars
and even a drainpipe that would act as one side of
a ladder. It wouldn’t be easy for me but once I

216/621

was inside I would go back down and open the
front door. I’d let the others in and the whole
place would be ours.

There were no lights on inside the building.
The other residents must have been asleep. Nor
was there anyone in the street. We crossed as
quickly as we could and grouped ourselves in the
shadows, right up against the wall.

“What do you think, Yasha?” Dima asked.
I looked up and nodded. “I can do it.” But still

I hesitated. “Are you sure she’s away?”

“Everyone says Fagin is reliable.”
“OK.”
“We’ll be waiting for you at the door. Make
sure you don’t make any noise coming down the
stairs.”

“Right. Good luck.”
Dima cupped his hands to help me climb up to
the first level and as I raised my foot, our eyes
met and he smiled at me. But at that moment I
suddenly felt troubled. This might be my destiny
but what would my parents have said if they

could have seen me now? They were honest
people. That was the way I’d been brought up. I
was amazed at how quickly I’d become a burglar,
a thief. And if I stayed in Moscow much longer?
I wondered what I might become next.

I began the climb. The three boys scattered.
We’d agreed that if a policeman happened to
come along on patrol, Grigory would warn me by
hooting like an owl. But right now we were alone
and at first it was easy. I had the drainpipe on one
side and there were plenty of bricks and swirling
plasterwork to give me a foothold. The architect
or the artist who had built this place might have
had plenty of ideas about style and elegance but
he had been less brilliant when it came to
security.

217/621

Even so, the higher I went, the more dangerous
it became. The pipe was quite loose. If I put too
much weight onto it, I risked tearing it out of the
wall. Some of the decorations were damp and
had begun to rot. I rested my foot briefly on a
diamond-shaped brick, part of a running pattern,

218/621

and to my horror it crumbled away. First, there
was the sound of loose plaster hitting the pave-
ment. Then I found myself scrabbling against the
face of the building, desperately trying to stop
myself plunging down. If I’d fallen from the first
floor, I’d have broken an ankle. From this height
it was more likely to be my neck. Somehow I
managed to steady myself. I looked down and
saw Dima standing underneath one of the street
lamps. He had seen what had happened and
waved a hand – either spurring me on or warning
me to be more careful.

I took a deep breath to steady my nerves, then
continued up – past the third floor and up to the
fourth. At one stage I was right next to a window
and, peeping in, I saw the vague shape of two
people lying in bed under a fur cover. I was lucky
they were heavy sleepers. I pulled myself up as
quickly as possible and finally reached the ledge
that ran along the whole building just below the
top floor. It was no more than fifteen centimetres
wide and I had to squeeze flat against the wall,

219/621

shuffling along with my toes touching the brick-
work and my heels hanging in the air. If I had
leaned back even slightly I would have lost my
balance and fallen. But I had come this far
without killing myself. I was determined to see it
through.

I got to the window with the smaller window
set inside it and now I saw that I had two more
problems. It was going to be an even tighter fit
than I had imagined. And it was going to be awk-
ward too. Somehow I had to lever myself up and
in, but that would mean putting all my weight on
the main sheet of glass. The windows were only
separated by a narrow frame and unless I was
careful there was a real chance they would shatter
beneath me and I would end up being cut in half.
Once again I looked for Dima but this time there
was no sign of him.

I reached out and held onto the edge with one
hand. The fortochka was definitely unlocked. The
room on the other side was dark but seemed to be
a lounge with a dining area and a kitchen

220/621

attached. I grabbed the glass with my other hand.
I saw now that I was going to have to go in head
first. It just wasn’t possible to lever up my leg.
Using my forehead, I pushed the little window
open. I leant forward, pushing my head inside.
Now the glass was resting against the back of my
neck, making me think of a prisoner in the old
days, about to be decapitated by guillotine. Try-
ing to keep as much of my weight off the glass as
I could, I arched forward and in. The fit was very
tight. The opening was barely more than forty
centimetres square … a cat flap indeed. My
shoulders only just passed through and I felt the
loose end of the glass scraping against my back. I
pushed harder and found myself wedged with the
lower rim of the fortochka pressing into my back
just above my buttocks. Suddenly I was trapped!
I couldn’t move in either direction and I had a
nightmare vision of being stuck there all night,
waiting for someone to discover me and call the
police in the morning. The glass was creaking
underneath me. I was sure it was going to break. I

221/621

pushed again. It was like giving birth to myself.
The edge cut into me but then, somehow, gravity
took over. I plunged forward into the darkness
and hit the floor. I was in!

If it hadn’t been for the carpet, I would have
definitely broken my nose and ended up looking
like Dima. If there was anyone in the flat, they
would certainly have heard me and I lay there for
a moment, waiting for the door to open and the
lights to go on. It didn’t happen. I remembered
the people I had seen beneath their fur cover in
the flat below. Surely they would have heard the
thump and wondered what it was. But there was
no sound from below either. I waited another
minute. My arm was sticking out at a strange
angle and I was worried that I had dislocated my
shoulder, but when I shifted my weight and got
back into a sensible position, it seemed all right.
Dima and the others would have seen me go in.
They would be waiting for me to come down and
open the front door. It was time to move.

222/621

First I examined my surroundings. As my eyes
got used to the half-light, I saw that I was in the
main living area and that the owner must have
been as wealthy as Fagin had said. I had never
been anywhere like this. The furniture was mod-
ern and looked brand new. Living in a wooden
house in a village, I had never seen – I had never
even imagined – glass and silver tables, leather
sofas, and beautiful cabinets with rings hanging
off the drawers. Everything I had ever sat on or
slept in had been old and shabby. There was a
gorgeous rug in front of a fireplace and even to
steal that would make this adventure worthwhile.
How much more comfortable I would be lying on
a luxurious rug than on the lumpy mattress back
at the Tverskaya Street apartment!

Paintings in gold frames hung on the walls.
I didn’t really understand them. They seemed to
be splashes of paint with no subject matter at all.
There had been a few framed photographs in my
house, a tapestry hanging in my parents’ bed-
room, pictures cut out of magazines, but nothing

like this. Next to the sitting area there was a
dining-room table – an oval of wood, partly
covered by a lace cloth, with four chairs – and
beyond it a kitchen that was so clean it had surely
never been used. I ran my eye over the electric
oven, the sink with its gleaming taps. No need to
run down to any wells if you lived here. There
was a fridge in one corner. I opened the door and
found myself bathed in electric light, staring at
shelves stacked with ham, cheese, fruit, salad,
pickled mushrooms and the little pancakes that
we called blinis. I’m afraid I couldn’t help my-
self. I reached in and stuffed as much food into
my mouth as I could, not caring if it was salty or
sweet.

And that was how I was, standing in the kit-
chen with food in my hands and in my mouth,
when there was the rattle of a key in the lock and
the main door of the flat opened and the lights
came on.

223/621

Fagin had got it wrong after all.

224/621

A man stood staring at me. I saw his eyes turn
instantly from surprise to understanding and then
to dark, seething fury. He was wearing a black
fur coat, black gloves and the sort of hat you
might see on an American gangster. A white silk
scarf hung around his shoulders. He was not a
huge man but he was solid and well built and he
had a presence about him, a sense of power. I
could see it in his extraordinarily intense eyes,
heavy-lidded with thick, black eyebrows. His
flesh had the colour and the vitality of a man ly-
ing dead in his coffin and standing there, framed
in the doorway, he had that same, heavy stillness.
His face was unlined, his mouth a narrow gash. I
could make out the edges of a tattoo on the side
of his neck: red flames. It suggested that the
whole of his body, underneath his shirt, was on
fire. Without knowing anything about him, I
knew I was in terrible trouble. If I had met the
devil I could not have been more afraid.

“Who is it, Vlad?” There was a woman stand-
ing behind him. I glimpsed a mink collar and
blonde hair.

“There is someone in the flat,” he said. “A

225/621

boy.”

His eyes briefly left me, darting across the
room to the window. He didn’t need to ask any
questions. He knew how I had got in. He knew
that I was alone.

“Do you want me to call the police?”
“No. There’s no need for that.”
His words were measured, uttered with a sort
of dull certainty. And they told me the worst
thing possible. If he wasn’t calling the police it
was because he had decided to deal with me him-
self, and he wasn’t going to shake my hand and
thank me for coming. He was going to kill me.
Perhaps there was a gun in his coat pocket. Per-
haps he would tear me apart with his bare hands.
I had no doubt at all that he could do it.

I didn’t know how to react. My one desire was
to get out of the flat, back into the street. I

226/621

wondered if Dima, Roman and Grigory had seen
what had happened but I knew that even if they
had, there was nothing they could do. The front
door would be locked. If they were sensible, they
would probably be halfway back to Tverskaya
Street. I tried to collect my thoughts. All I had to
do was to get past this man and out into the cor-
ridor. The woman wouldn’t try to stop me. I
looked around me and did perhaps the most stu-
pid thing I could have done. There was a bread
knife on the counter. I picked it up.

The man didn’t move. He didn’t speak. He
glanced at the blade with outrage. How could I
dare to pick up his property and threaten him in
his home? That was what he said without actually
saying anything. Holding the knife didn’t make
me feel any stronger. In fact all
the strength
drained out of me the moment I had it in my hand
and the silver, jagged blade filled me with horror.
“I don’t want any trouble,” I said and my voice
didn’t sound like my own. “Just let me go and
nobody will be hurt.”

He had no intention of doing that. He moved
towards me and I jabbed out with the knife
without thinking, not meaning to stab him, not
really knowing what I was doing. He stopped. I
saw the face of the girl behind him, frozen in
shock. The man looked down. I followed his eyes
and saw that the point of the blade had gone
through his coat, into his chest. I was even more
horrified. I stepped back, dropping the knife. It
clattered to the floor.

The man didn’t seem to have felt any pain. He
brought up a hand and examined the gash in his
coat as if it mattered more to him than the flesh
underneath. When he brought his hand away,
there was blood on the tips of his glove.

He gazed at me. I was unarmed now, trapped

227/621

by those terrible eyes.

“What have you done?” he demanded.
“I…” I didn’t know what to say.
He took one step forward and punched me in
the face. I had never been struck so hard. I didn’t
even know it was possible for one human to hurt

228/621

another human so much. It was like being hit by
a rod of steel and I felt something break. I heard
the girl cry out. I was already falling but as I
went down he hit me again with the other fist so
that my head snapped back and my body col-
lapsed in two directions at once. I remember a
bolt of white light that seemed to be my own
death. I was unconscious before I reached the
floor.

РУССКАЯ PУЛЕТКА

RUSSIAN ROULETTE

I woke up in total darkness, lying in a cramped
space with my legs hunched up, a gag in my
mouth and my hands tied. My first thought was
that I was locked inside a box, that I had been
buried alive – and for the next sixty seconds I
was screaming without making any sound, my
heart racing, my muscles straining against the
ropes around my wrists, barely able to catch
breath. Somehow I got myself under control. It
wasn’t a box. I was in the boot of a car. We had
been standing stationary a moment ago but now I
heard the throb of the engine and felt us move
off. That still wasn’t good. I was being allowed
to live – but for how long?

231/621

I was in a bad way. My head was pounding –
and by that I mean all of it, inside and out. The
whole side of my face was swollen. It hurt me to
move my mouth and I couldn’t close one of my
eyes. The man’s fist had broken my cheekbone.
I had no idea what I looked like but what did that
matter? I did not expect to live.

I presumed the man was Vladimir Sharkovsky.
Fagin had warned me that he was dangerous but
that was only half the story. I had seen enough of
him in the flat to know that he was a psychopath.
No ordinary person had eyes like that. He had
been utterly cold when I had attacked him but
when his temper flared up it had been like a de-
mon leaping out of the craters of hell. He hadn’t
called the police. That was the worst of it. He
was taking me somewhere and when he got there
he could do whatever he wanted to me. I dreaded
to think what that might be. Was he planning to
torture me as a punishment for what I had done? I
had heard that many hundreds of children went

missing from the streets of Moscow every year. It
might well be my fate to become one of them.

232/621

I cannot say how long the journey took.
I couldn’t see my watch with my hands tied be-
hind me and after a while, I dozed off. I didn’t
sleep exactly. I simply drifted out of conscious-
ness. It would have been nice to have dreamt of
my parents and of my life in Estrov, to have
spent my last hours on this planet reliving happi-
er times, but I was in too much pain. Every few
minutes, my eyes would blink open and I would
once again find myself struggling for breath in
that almost airtight compartment, desperately
wanting to straighten up, to go to the toilet, to be
anywhere but there. The car just rumbled on.

Eventually, we arrived. I felt us slowing down.
Then we stopped and I heard a man’s voice, a
command being given, followed by what soun-
ded like the click of a metal gate. When we set
off again, there was a different surface – gravel –
beneath the tyres. The car stopped and the engine
was turned off. The driver’s door opened and

233/621

shut and I heard footsteps on the gravel. I tensed
myself, waiting for the car boot to be released,
but it didn’t happen. The footsteps disappeared
into the distance and when, a long time later, they
hadn’t come back, I began to think that I was go-
ing to be left here all night, like a piece of bag-
gage nobody needed.

And so it was. I was left in the dark, in silence,
with no idea how long it was going to last or
what would happen when I was released. It was
being done on purpose, of course, to break my
spirit, to make me suffer. I was the victim of my
own worst imaginings. I had nothing to do except
to count every single painful minute. Unable to
move, to stretch myself, my whole body was in
torment. My only option was to try to sleep,
fighting back all the dread that came from being
tied up and left in this small space. It was a long,
hideous night. By the time the boot was opened, I
was no longer afraid of death. I think I would
have welcomed it. A short tunnel of horrors fol-
lowed by release. It would be worth the journey.

234/621

There was a man leaning over me; not the one
from the Moscow flat. He was quite simply
massive – with oversized shoulders and a thick
neck – and dressed in a cheap grey suit, a white
shirt and a black tie. His hair was blond and
thickly oiled so that it stood up in spikes. He was
wearing dark glasses and there was a radio trans-
mitter behind his ear that had a wire curling
down to a throat mike. His skin was utterly white
and it occurred to me that he might have been in
a prison or some other institution all his life. He
didn’t look as if he had ever spent any time in the
sun.

He reached down and with a single movement
dragged me out of the boot, then stood me up so
that I was balanced against the back of the car. I
would have fallen otherwise. There was no
strength in my legs. He looked at me with hardly
any expression apart from disgust and I couldn’t
blame him for that. I stank. My clothes were
crumpled. My face was caked with blood. He
reached into his jacket pocket and I winced as he

235/621

produced a knife. I was quite ready for him to
plunge it into my chest but he just leant over me
and cut the cords of my wrists. My hands fell
free. They looked horrible. The flesh of my
wrists was blue, covered in welts. I couldn’t
move my fingers but I felt the pins and needles as
the blood supply was restored.

“You are to come with us,” he said. He had a
deep, gravelly voice. He spoke without emotion,
as if he didn’t actually enjoy speaking.

Us? I glanced round and saw a second man
standing at the side of the car. For a moment, I
thought my brain was playing tricks on me after
my long captivity. This second man was identical
to the first – the same height, the same looks, the
same clothes. They were twins … just like the
two girls I had once known in Estrov. But it was
almost as if these two had trained themselves to
be indistinguishable. They had the same haircut,
the same sunglasses. They even moved at exactly
the same time, like mirror images.

The first twin hadn’t bothered to find out my
name. He didn’t want to know anything about
me.

“Where are we?” I asked. The words came out

236/621

clumsily because of the damage to my face.

“No questions. Do as you are told.”
He gestured. I began to walk and for the first
time I was able to take in my surroundings. I was
in what looked like a large and very beautiful
park with pathways, neatly cut grass and trees.
The park was surrounded by a brick wall, several
metres high with razor wire around the top, and I
could make out the tips of more trees on the other
side. The car that I had been in was a black Lex-
us. It had been parked quite close to an arched
gateway with a barrier that rose and fell, the only
way out, I suspected. A guardhouse stood next to
it. This was a wooden construction with a large
glass window and I could see a man in uniform,
watching us as we walked together. My first
thought was that I had been brought to some sort

of prison. There were arc lamps and CCTV cam-
eras set at intervals along the wall.

237/621

We were heading towards a cluster of eight
wooden houses that had been tucked out of sight
behind some fir trees, about fifty metres from the
gates. They were new-looking, completely fea-
tureless and almost identical. In the West, they
would be called portakabins, although they were
a little larger and they’d been built two high with
external staircases connecting them. I noticed
that there were no bars on any of the windows.
These weren’t cells. I guessed they provided ac-
commodation for the people who worked here. A
larger, brick building stood nearby perhaps with a
dining room attached.

I glanced behind me. And although I hadn’t
been given permission, I came to a stumbling
halt. Where the hell was I? I had never seen any-
thing like this.

A gravel drive with lamps and flower beds on
each side led from the entrance through the park-
land and up to a monumental white house. Not a

238/621

house. A palace … and not one that had come out
of any fairy tale. It was a modern building, newly
built, pure white, with two wings stretching out
from a central block which alone must have con-
tained about fifty rooms. There were terraces
with white balustrades, white columns with
triple-height doorways opening behind, walk-
ways and balconies, and above it all a white
dome like that of a planetarium or perhaps a
cathedral. Half a dozen satellite dishes had been
mounted on the roof along with television aerials
and a radio tower. A man stood there, watching
me through binoculars. He was wearing the same
uniform as the man at the gate – but with a differ-
ence. Even at this distance I could see that he had
a machine gun strapped to his shoulder.

Closer to the house, the gardens became more
ornamental with statues on plinths, marble
benches, beautifully tended walkways and ar-
into fantastic shapes, more
bours, bushes cut
flower beds laid out
in intricate patterns. An
army of gardeners would have to work the whole

239/621

year round to keep it all looking like this and
even as I stood there I saw some of them pushing
wheelbarrows or on their knees weeding. The
drive broke into two as it reached the front door,
sweeping round a white marble fountain that had
gods and mermaids all tangled together and water
splashing down. I saw two Rolls Royces, a Bent-
ley and a Ferrari parked outside. But the owner
didn’t just have cars. His private helicopter was
parked on a concrete square, discreetly located
next to a summer house. It was under canvas with
the blades tied down.

“Why are you waiting?” one of the twins

demanded.

“Who lives here?” I asked.
His answer was a jab in the side of my stom-
ach. It had been aimed around my kidney and it
hurt. “I told you. No questions.”

I was very quickly learning the rules of this
place. I was worth nothing. Anyone could do
anything to me. I swallowed a grunt of pain and
continued to the smallest cabin, right on the edge

of the complex. The door was open and I looked
into a room with a narrow metal bed, a table and
a chair. There was no carpet, no curtains, nothing
in the way of decoration. A second door led into
a toilet and shower.

“You have five minutes,” the man said.
“Throw those clothes away. You will not need
them. Wash yourself and make yourself present-
able. Do not
leave this room. If you do, the
guards will shoot you down.”

240/621

He left me on my own. I stripped off my
clothes and went into the bathroom. I used the
toilet, then I had a shower. I knew I was in
danger. It was quite likely that I would soon be
dead. But that shower was still a wonderful ex-
perience. The water was hot and there was
enough pressure to soak me completely. There
was even a bar of soap. It had been three weeks
since I had last washed – that had been in the
banya, the bathhouse in Moscow – and black dirt
seemed to ooze out of my body, disappearing
down the plughole. Thinking of the bathhouse

241/621

reminded me of Dima. What would he be doing
now? Had he seen me being bundled into the car
by Sharkovsky and, if so, might he come looking
for me? At least that was something to give me
hope.

My face still hurt

though, and when I ex-
amined myself in the mirror, it was as bad as I
had feared. I barely recognized myself. One eye
was half closed. There was a huge bruise all
around it. My cheek looked like a rotting fruit
with a gash where the man’s fist had caught me. I
was lucky I still had all my teeth. Looking at the
damage, I was reminded of what lay ahead. I
hadn’t been brought here for my own comfort. I
was being prepared for something. My punish-
ment was still to come.

I went back into the bedroom. My own clothes
had been taken away while I was washing and,
with a jolt, I realized that the last of my mother’s
jewellery had gone with them. Her ring had been
in my back pocket. I knew at once that there
would be no point in asking for it back and I had

to hold down a great wave of sadness, the sense
that I had nothing left. She had worn that ring
and touching it, I had felt I was touching her.
Now that it had been taken from me, it was as if I
had finally been separated from the boy I had
once been.

I had been supplied with a black tracksuit,
black socks and black slip-on shoes. I dried my-
self, using a towel that had been hanging in the
bathroom, and got dressed. The clothes fitted me
very well.

“Are you ready?” The twins were standing
outside, calling to me. I left the cabin and joined
them. They glanced at me, both of them still
showing a complete lack of interest.

“Come with us,” one of them said. They ap-

242/621

peared to have a fairly limited vocabulary too.

We walked up the drive all the way to the big
house. As we went, we passed another security
guard, this one with an Alsatian dog on a leash. A
television camera mounted above the front door
watched our approach. But we didn’t go in that

243/621

way. The twins took me in through a side door
next to the dustbin area and along a corridor.
Here the walls were plain and the floor black and
white tiles. The servants’ entrance. We passed a
laundry room, a boot room and a pantry next to
a kitchen. I glimpsed a woman in a black dress
and a white apron, polishing silver. She didn’t
notice me or, if she did, she pretended not to. My
feet, in the soft shoes, made no sound as we con-
tinued through. I was feeling queasy and I knew
why. I was afraid.

We passed through a hallway; this was the
main entrance to the house. A magnificent stair-
case swept down to the front door with a marble
pillar on each side. The hallway itself was huge.
You could have parked a dozen cars there. A
bowl of flowers stood on a table – it must have
emptied a flower shop. The central light was a
chandelier, hundreds of crystals twinkling bril-
liantly like a firework display. It made the lights I
had seen in the Moscow Metro look cheap and
gaudy. There were more doors on every side. It

was all too much for me to take in. If a spaceship
had grabbed me and deposited me on the moon, I
would have felt as much at home.

“In here…”
One of the twins knocked on an oak door and,

244/621

without waiting for a reply, opened it. I went in.

The man from the Moscow apartment was sit-
ting behind an oversized antique desk. There
were bookshelves behind him and on one side a
globe that looked so old that quite a few of the
countries were probably missing … yet to be dis-
covered. He was framed by two windows with
red velvet curtains and a view out to the fountain
and the drive. The room was very warm. One
wall contained a stone fireplace – two crouching
imps or demons supporting the mantelpiece on
their shoulders – and a Dalmatian, lay stretched
out in front of it. The walls were covered with
paintings. The largest was a portrait of the man I
was facing and I have to say that the painted ver-
sion was the more welcoming of the two. He had
not looked up from his work. He was reading a

245/621

document, making notes in the margins with a
black fountain pen.

There was a gun on the desk in front of him.
As I stood there, waiting to be told what to do,
I found myself staring at it. It was a revolver, a
very old-fashioned model with a stainless steel
barrel, five inches long, and a black, enamel grip.
It wasn’t like an automatic or a self-loading pistol
where you feed the bullets into a clip. This one
had a cylinder and six chambers. A single bullet
lay beside it.

“Sit down,” he said, pointing to an empty chair

in front of him.

I stepped forward, although it felt more as if I
was floating, and sat down. The door clicked shut
behind me. Without being instructed, the twins
had left.

I waited for the master of the house to speak.
He was wearing a suit now and somehow I knew
that it was expensive and that it hadn’t been
made in Russia. The material was too luxurious
and it fitted too well. He had a pale blue shirt and

246/621

a brown tie. Now that he wasn’t wearing his coat,
I could see that he was very muscular. He must
have spent hundreds of hours in the gym. He had
also removed the hat and I saw that he was com-
pletely bald. He had not lost his hair. He had
shaved it off, leaving a dark shadow that made
him more death-like than ever. I waited in dread
for his heavy, ugly eyes to settle on me. My face
was hurting badly and I wanted to go to the toilet
again. But I didn’t dare say anything. I didn’t
move.

At length he stopped and lay the pen down.

“What is your name?” he asked.

“Yasha Gregorovich.”
“Yassen?” He had misheard me. The side of
my face was so swollen that I had mispronounced
my own name. It would be very unusual to be
called Yassen. It is Russian for ash tree. But I did
not correct him. I had decided it would be better
not to speak unless I had to. “How old are you?”
he asked.

“I’m fourteen.”

“Where are you from?”
I remembered my mother’s warning. “A town
called Kirsk,” I said. “It’s a long way away. You
won’t have heard of it.”

247/621

The man thought for a moment, then he got up,
walked round the desk and stood next to me. He
took his time, considering the situation, then sud-
denly and without warning slapped me across the
face. The blow wasn’t a particularly hard one,
certainly not as hard as the night before, but nor
did it need to be. My cheekbone was already
broken and the fresh pain almost knocked me off
the chair. Black spots appeared in front of my
eyes. I thought I was going to be sick.

By the time I had recovered, the man was back
in his chair. “Never make assumptions,” he said.
“Never assume anything about me. And when
you speak to me, call me ‘sir’. Do you
understand?”
“Yes, sir.”
He nodded. “Do you have parents?”
“No, sir. They’re both dead.”

“And last night, when you broke into my flat,

248/621

were you alone?”

I had already decided that I wasn’t going to tell
him about Dima, Roman and Grigory. If I told
him their names, I had no doubt he would send
his men round to Tverskaya to kill them. I still
thought he was going to kill me. “Yes, sir,” I
replied. “I was on my own.”

“How did you come to choose that flat – as op-

posed to any other?”

“I was walking past. I saw that the window
was open and the lights were out. I didn’t even
think about it. I just went in.”

The answer seemed to satisfy him. He took out
a gold cigarette case. I noticed the initials V.S. on
the cover. He removed a cigarette and lit it, then
lay the case on the desk, close to the gun. “Vladi-
mir Sharkovsky,” he said. “That is my name.”

I didn’t tell him that I knew. I simply sat there
and watched as he smoked in silence. I would
have liked a cigarette but I needed the toilet
more. My insides were churning.

249/621

“You must be wondering why you are still
alive,” he continued. “In fact, you should not be.
Last night, as I drove over the bridge, I thought
of dropping you in the Moscow River. I would
have quite enjoyed watching you drown. When I
drove you here, my intention was to give you to
Josef and Karl to be punished and then killed.
Even now, I am undecided if you will live or if
you will die.” His eyes rested briefly on the re-
volver. “The fact that you are sitting in this room,
talking to me, is down to one reason only. It is a
question of timing. Perhaps you have been lucky.
A week ago it would have been different. But
right now…”

He trailed off, then took another drag on the ci-
garette, the blue smoke curling into the air. A log
snapped in the fireplace and the dog stirred
briefly, then went back to sleep. So far, Vladimir
Sharkovsky had shown no emotion whatsoever.
His voice was flat, entirely disinterested. If ma-
chines had ever learned to speak, they would
speak like him.

“I am a careful man,” he went on. “One of the
reasons why I have prospered is that I have al-
ways used everything that has been given to me. I
never miss an opportunity. It may be an invest-
ment in a company, the chance to buy my way
into a bank, the weakness of a government offi-
cial who is open to bribery. Or it may be the
chance appearance of a worthless thief and gut-
tersnipe like yourself. But if it can be used, then I
will use it. That is how I live.

“There is something you need to understand
about me. I am extremely successful. Right now,
Russia is changing. The old ways are being left
behind. For those of us with the vision to see
what is possible, the rewards are limitless. You
have nothing. You steal because you are hungry
and all you think about is your next pathetic
meal. I have the world and everything in it. And
now, Yassen Gregorovich, I have you.

250/621

“A large number of people work for me in this
house. Because of the nature of my work and
who I am, I have to be careful. Josef and Karl,

the two men who brought you here, are my per-
sonal bodyguards. They are standing outside and
I should perhaps warn you that there is a commu-
nication button underneath this desk. If you were
to try anything, if you were to threaten me again,
they would be in here in an instant. Be glad they
were not with me in Moscow. That was the
private apartment of a friend of mine. The mo-
ment you picked up that knife, your own life
would have been over.

“I will not kill you – yet – because I think I can
use you. As it happens, a position has arisen here,
a vacancy which it would not normally be easy to
fill. You are, as I said, very fortunate with the
timing. I have no doubt that you are stupid and
uneducated. But
even so, you might be
acceptable.”

251/621

He paused and it took me a few seconds to
realize that he was waiting for me to reply. I
couldn’t believe what he had just told me. He
wasn’t going to kill me. He was offering me a
job!

252/621

“I’d be very happy to work for you, sir,” I said.
His eyes settled on me, full of contempt.
“Happy?” He repeated the word with a sneer.
“You say stupid things without thinking. It is not
my intention to make you happy. Quite the op-
posite. You broke into my apartment. You at-
tempted to hurt me and in doing so you ruined a
perfectly good overcoat, a jacket and a shirt. You
even cut my flesh. For this, you must pay. You
must be punished. If you decide to accept my
proposal, you will spend every hour of the rest of
your life wishing that the two of us had never
met. I am not offering to pay you. I will own you.
I will use you. From this moment on, I will ex-
pect your total obedience. You will do whatever I
tell you. You will not hesitate.” He gestured at
the fireplace. “You see the dog? That is what you
are now. That’s all you mean to me.”

He stubbed out the cigarette. I could see that
he was bored with the interview, that he wanted it
to be over.

“What do you want me to do?” I asked. “What

253/621

sort of work?”

I had no choice. I had to survive. Let him em-
ploy me in whatever capacity and somehow I
would find a way out of this place. In the back of
a car, over the wall … I would escape.

“You will clean. You will carry messages. You
will sweep floors. You will help in the garden.
But that’s just part of it. The main reason that I
need you is something quite different.” He
paused. “You will be my food taster.”

“Your…?” I almost laughed out loud and if I
had, I am sure he would have shot me there and
then. But it was ridiculous. At school, we had
been taught about the Roman emperors – Julius
Caesar and the others – who had employed slaves
to taste everything they ate. But this was Russia
in the twentieth century. He couldn’t possibly
mean what he had just said.

“It is unfortunately the case that I have many
enemies,” Sharkovsky explained. He was com-
pletely serious. “Some of them fear me. Some are

254/621

jealous of me. All of them would benefit if I was
no longer here. In the last year, there have been
three attempts on my life. That is how things are
now. Several of my associates have been less for-
tunate – which is to say, they have been less care-
ful than me. And they have died.

“Apart from my wife and my children, I can
trust no one and even my immediate family
might one day be bribed to do me harm. I employ
a great many people to protect me and I have to
employ more people to watch over them. I trust
none of them.” His dark eyes bore into me. “Can
I trust you?”

I was trying to make sense of all this. Was that
really to be my fate? Sitting at his dining table,
digging my fork into his blinis and caviar?

“I’ll do whatever you want,” I said.
“Will you?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Anything?”
“Yes…” This time I was uneasy.

It was what he had been waiting for. It was the

very worst thing I could have said.

255/621

“We will see.” He reached out and took the
gun. He jerked open the cylinder and showed me
that it was empty. Then he picked up the bullet –
a little cylinder of gleaming silver – and held it
between his finger and thumb like a scientist giv-
ing a demonstration. I watched silently. I didn’t
know what was about to happen but I could feel
my heart pounding. He slid the bullet into one of
the chambers and snapped the cylinder shut.
Then he spun it several times so that the metal
became a blur and it was impossible for either of
us to tell where the bullet had lodged.

“You say you will do anything for me,” he
said. “So do this. The gun has six chambers. As
you have seen, one of them now contains a live
bullet. You do not know where the bullet is. Nor
do I.” He placed the gun back on the desk, right
in front of me. “Put the gun into your mouth and
pull the trigger.”

I stared at him. “I don’t understand.”

“It’s simple enough!” he said. “Point the gun

at the back of your mouth and shoot.”

256/621

“But why…?”
“Because you said to me five seconds ago that
you would do anything I wanted and now I am
asking you to prove it. I need to know that I can
rely on you. Either you will pull the trigger or
you will not. But let us consider the options,
Yassen Gregorovich. If you will not do what I
ask, then you have lied to me and I cannot use
you after all. In that case, I can assure you that
your death is certain. If you do as I have asked,
then there are two possibilities that lie ahead of
you. It is quite possible that you will kill your-
self, that in a few minutes’ time, my cleaners will
be wiping your brains off my carpet. That will be
annoying. But there is also a very good chance
that you will live and from that moment on you
will serve me. It is your decision and you must
make it now. I don’t have all day.”

He was torturing me after all. He was asking
me to play this horrific game to prove beyond

257/621

any doubt that he had complete power over me. I
would never argue with him. I would never re-
fuse an order. If I did this, I would be accepting
that my own life no longer belonged to me. That
in every respect I was his.

What could I do? What choice did I have?
I picked up the gun. It was much heavier than I
had expected but at the same time, I had no
strength at all. Nothing below my shoulder
seemed to be working properly – not my wrist,
not my hand, not my fingers. I could feel my
pulse racing and I had to struggle even to breathe.
What this man was demanding was horrific …
beyond imagination. Six chambers. One contain-
ing a bullet. A one in six chance. When I pulled
the trigger, nothing might happen. Or I might
send a piece of metal travelling at two hundred
miles per hour into my own head. If I didn’t do it,
he would kill me. That was what it came down
to. I felt hot tears brimming over my cheeks. It
seemed impossible that my life could have come
to this.

“Don’t cry like a baby,” Sharkovsky said. “Get

258/621

on with it.”

My arm and wrist were aching. I could feel the
blood pumping through my veins. Almost invol-
untarily, my finger had curled around the trigger.
The grip was pressed against the palm of my
hand. For a crazy moment, I thought of firing at
Sharkovsky, of emptying the chamber in his dir-
ection. But what good would that do me? He
probably had a second gun concealed somewhere
and if I didn’t find the bullet at the first attempt
he would have plenty of time to shoot me where I
sat.

“Please, sir…” I whispered.
“I am not

interested in your tears or your
pleading,” he snapped. “I am interested only in
your obedience.”

“But…”
“Do it now!”
I touched the muzzle of the gun against the

side of my head.

“In your mouth!”

259/621

I will never forget his insistence, that one ob-
scene detail. I pushed the barrel of the gun
between my teeth, feeling the muzzle grazing the
roof of my mouth. I could taste the metal, cold
and bitter. I was aware of the black hole, the
muzzle, pointing at my throat with, perhaps, a
bullet resting behind it, waiting to begin its short
journey. Sharkovsky was gloating. I don’t think
he cared one way or the other what the outcome
would be. I couldn’t breathe. The contents of my
stomach were rising up. I pressed with my finger
but I couldn’t make it work. In my mind I already
heard the explosion. I felt the scorching heat and
saw the darkness falling like a blade as my life
was snatched away.

“Do it!” he snarled.
One chance in six.
I squeezed the trigger.
The hammer drew back. How far would it
travel before it fell? I was certain that these were
the last seconds of my life. And yet everything

260/621

was happening horribly slowly. They seemed to
stretch on for ever.

I felt the mechanism release itself in my hand.
The hammer fell with a heavy, thunderous click.

Nothing.
There had been no explosion. The chamber

was empty.

Relief rushed through me but it did not feel
good. It was as if I was being emptied, as if my
entire life and all the good things I had ever ex-
perienced were being taken from me. From this
moment on, I belonged to Sharkovksy. That was
what he had demonstrated. I dropped the gun. It
fell heavily against the surface of the desk and
lay there between us. The muzzle was wet with
my saliva.

“You can leave now,” he said.
He must have pressed the communication but-
ton under his desk because although I hadn’t
heard them, the men who had brought me here
had returned. Perhaps the twins had been present

and had seen what had just happened. I didn’t
know.

261/621

I stood up. My whole body felt foreign to me. I
might not have killed myself but even so,
something inside me had died.

“Yassen Gregorovich is working for me now,”
Sharvovsky continued. “Take him downstairs and
show him.”

The two men led me out of the study and back
into the corridor we had come through together.
But this time we took a staircase down into a
basement area. There was an oversized fridge
door that led into a cold storage room and I
watched as one twin opened it and the other went
inside. He wheeled out a trolley. There was a
dead body on it, covered by a sheet. He lifted it
up and I saw a naked man. He couldn’t have been
more than ten years older than me when he died.
It had happened very recently. His face was dis-
torted with pain. His hands seemed to be scrab-
bling at his throat.

I understood without being told. The old food

262/621

taster.

A position has arisen here. That was what
Vladimir Sharkovsky had said to me. Now I
knew why.

СЕРЕБРЯНЫЙ БОР

SILVER FOREST

I made my first escape attempt that same day.

I knew I couldn’t stay there. I wasn’t going to
play any more of Sharkovsky’s sadistic games
and I certainly wasn’t going to swallow his food
… not when there was a real chance of my end-
ing up on a metal slab. I had been left alone for
the rest of the day. Perhaps they thought I needed
time to recover from my ordeal and they were
certainly right. The moment I got back to my
room, I was sick. After that, I slept for about
three hours. One of the twins visited me during
the afternoon. He brought more clothes with him:
overalls, boots, an apron, a suit. Each piece of
clothing related to a different task I would be

expected to perform. I left them on the floor. I
wasn’t going to be part of this. I was out.

265/621

although there were

As soon as night had come, I left my room and
set out to explore the grounds, now empty of
gardeners
still guards
patrolling close to the wall. It was clear to me
that the wall completely surrounded the complex
and there was no possibility of my climbing it. It
was too high, and anyway, the razor wire would
cut me to shreds. The simple truth was that the
archway was the only way in and out – but at
least that meant I could focus my attention on
that one avenue. And looking at it, I wasn’t sure
that it was as secure as it seemed. Three uni-
formed guards sat inside the wooden cabin with a
glass window that allowed them to look out over
the driveway. They had television monitors too.
There was a red and white pole, which they had
to raise, and they searched every vehicle that
came in, one of them looking underneath with a
flat mirror on wheels while another checked the
driver’s ID. But when there were no cars, they

did nothing. One of them read a newspaper. The
others simply sat back looking bored. I could just
slip out. It wouldn’t be difficult at all.

266/621

That was my plan. It was about seven o’clock
and I assumed everyone was eating. I’d had no
food all day but I was in no mood to eat. Still
wearing the black tracksuit – the colour would
help to conceal me in the darkness – I slipped
outside. When I was sure there was nobody
around, I sprinted to the edge of the cabin and
then crept round, crouching underneath the win-
dow and keeping close to the wall. The road back
to Moscow lay in front of me. I couldn’t believe
it was this easy.

It wasn’t. I only found out about the infrared
sensors when I passed through one of them, im-
mediately setting off a deafening alarm. At once
the whole area exploded into brilliant light as arc
lamps sliced into me and I found myself trapped
between the beams. There was no point in run-
ning – I would have been shot before I had taken
ten steps – and I could only stand there looking

foolish as the guards seized hold of me and
dragged me back.

267/621

Punishment was immediate and hideous. I was
given to the twins, who simply beat me up as if I
were a punchbag in a gym. It wasn’t just the pain
that left its mark on me. It was their complete in-
difference. I know they were being paid by
Sharkovsky. They were following his orders. But
what sort of man can do this to a child and live
with himself the next day? They were careful not
to break any more bones, but by the time they
dragged me back to my room, I was barely con-
scious. They threw me onto my bed and left me. I
had passed out before they closed the door.

I made my second escape attempt as soon as I
was able to move again, the next day. It was cer-
tainly foolish but it seemed to me that it was the
last thing they would expect and so they might
briefly lower their guard. They thought I was
broken, exhausted. Both of these things were true
but I was also determined. This time, a delivery
truck provided the opportunity.
I’d eaten

268/621

breakfast in my room – one of the twins had
brought it on a tray – but after I’d finished I was
sent up to the house to help unload about fifty
crates of wine and champagne that Sharkovsky
had ordered. It didn’t matter that I could feel my
shirt sticking to my open wounds and that every
movement caused me pain. While the driver
waited, I carried the crates in through the back
door and down the steps that led to the cold stor-
age room. There was a wine cellar next to it, a
cavernous space that housed hundreds of bottles,
facing each other in purpose-built racks. It took
me about two hours to carry them all down and
when I’d finished I noticed that there were a lot
of empty boxes in the back of the van. It seemed
easy enough to hide myself behind a pile of them.
Surely they wouldn’t bother searching the van on
the way out?

The driver closed the door. Crouching behind
the boxes, I heard him start the engine. We drove
back down the drive and slowed down. I waited
for the moment of truth, the acceleration that

meant we had passed through the barrier and
were outside the compound. It never came. The
door was thrown open again and a voice called
me.

269/621

“Get out!”
Again, it was one of the twins. I don’t know
how he’d been so certain that I was there. Maybe
I’d been caught by one of the CCTV cameras.
Maybe he had been expecting it all along. I felt a
weakness in my stomach as I stood up and
showed myself. I wasn’t sure I could take another
beating. But even as I climbed down, I wouldn’t
let him see I was scared. I wasn’t going to give
in.

“Come with me,” he instructed.
His face gave nothing away. I followed him
back to the house but this time he took me round
the back. There was a conservatory on the other
side, although actually it was more like a pavil-
ion, constructed mainly out of glass with white
wooden panels, at least fifty metres long. It had a
series of folding doors so that in the full heat of

270/621

the summer the whole thing could be opened out,
but
this was late October and they were all
closed. The twins opened a single door and led
me inside. I found myself in front of an enormous
blue-tiled swimming pool, almost Olympic-sized.
The water was heated. I could see the steam
rising over the surface. Sunloungers had been ar-
ranged around the edge and there was a well-
stocked bar with a mirrored counter and leather
stools.

Sharkovsky was doing lengths. We stood
there, watching, while he went from one end to
the other and back again, performing a steady,
rhythmic butterfly stroke.
I counted eighteen
lengths and he never stopped once. Nor did he
look my way. This was how he liked to keep
himself fit, and as he continued I couldn’t help
but notice the extraordinarily well-developed
muscles in his back and shoulders. I also saw his
tattoos. There was a Jewish Star of David in the
centre of his back – but it wasn’t a religious sym-
bol. On the contrary, it was on fire with the

271/621

words DEATH TO ZIONISM engraved below.
These were the flames that I had seen reaching
up to his neck in his Moscow apartment. When
he finally finished swimming and climbed out, I
saw a huge eagle with outstretched wings,
perched on a Nazi swastika tattooed across his
chest. He had a slight paunch, but even this was
solid rather than flabby. There was a plaster un-
derneath one of his nipples and I realized that this
was where I must have cut him with the knife. He
was wearing tiny swimming trunks. His whole
appearance was somehow very grotesque.

At last he noticed me. He picked up a towel
and walked over. I was trembling. I couldn’t stop
myself. I was expecting the worst.

“Yassen Gregorovich,” he said. “I understand
that you tried to leave this place last night. You
were punished for this but it didn’t prevent you
from making a second attempt
today. Is that
right?”

“Yes, sir.” There was no point in denying it.

272/621

“It is understandable. It shows spirit. At the
same time, it goes against the contract that you
and I made between us in my study yesterday.
You agreed to work for me. You agreed you were
mine. Have you forgotten so soon?”

“No, sir.”
“Very well. Then hear this. You cannot escape
from here. It
is not possible. Should you try
again, there will be no further discussion, no pun-
ishment. I will simply have you killed. Do you
understand?”
“Yes, sir.”
He turned to the twins. “Josef, take Yassen
away. Give him another beating – this time use a
cane – and then lock him up on his own without
food. Let me know when he has recovered
enough to start work. That’s all.”

But we didn’t leave. The twin wouldn’t let me.
And Sharkovsky was waiting for me to say
something.

“Thank you, sir,” I said.

Sharkovsky smiled. “That’s alright, Yassen.

273/621

It’s my pleasure.”

I was to spend the next three years with Vladimir
Sharkovsky.

I could not risk another escape attempt – not
unless I was prepared to commit suicide. It took
me a week to recover from the beating I received
that day. I will not say that it broke my spirit. But
by the end of it I knew that when I had picked up
that gun and placed it in my mouth, I had signed
a deal with the devil. I was not just his servant.
I was his possession. You might even say I was
his slave.

The place where I found myself,

the huge
white house, was his dacha – his second home
outside Moscow. It was in Serebryany Bor – Sil-
ver Forest – not that many miles from the centre.
This was an area well suited to wealthy families.
The air was cleaner in the forest. It was quieter
and more private. There were lakes and wooded
walkways outside the complex where you could

274/621

exercise the dogs or go hunting and fishing …
not that these activities were available to me be-
cause, of course, I was never once allowed out-
side. I was restricted to the same few faces, the
same menial tasks. My life was to have no re-
wards and no prospect of advancement or release.
It was a terrible thing to do to anyone – even
worse when you consider that I was so young.

And yet slowly, inevitably perhaps, I accepted
my destiny. The injury to my face healed and for-
tunately it left no mark. I began to get used to my
new life.

I worked all the time at the dacha … fifteen
hours a day, seven days a week. I never had a
holiday and, as Sharkovsky had promised, I
didn’t receive one kopeck. The fact that I was be-
ing allowed to live was payment enough. Christ-
mas, Easter, Victory Day, Spring and Labour
Day, my birthdays – all these simply disappeared
into each other.

Sharkovsky had told me I would be his food
taster but he had also made it clear to me that this

275/621

was only a part of my work. He was true to his
word. I chopped and carried firewood. I cleaned
bathrooms and toilets. I helped in the laundry and
the kitchen. I washed dishes. I painted walls. I
looked after the dog, picking up after it when it
fouled. I lifted suitcases. I unblocked drains.
I washed cars. I polished shoes. But I never com-
plained. I understood that there was no point in
complaining. The work never stopped.

Sharkovsky lived in the big house with his
wife, Maya, and his two children, Ivan and Svet-
lana. Maya had very little to do with me. She
spent most of her time reading magazines and pa-
perbacks – she liked romances – or shopping in
Moscow. She had once been a model and she was
still attractive, but life with Sharkovsky was be-
ginning to take its toll and I would sometimes
catch her looking anxiously in the mirror, track-
ing a finger along a wrinkle or a wisp of grey
hair. I wondered if she knew about the flat in
Gorky Park and the actress who lived there. In a
way, she was as much a prisoner as I was and

276/621

maybe that was why she avoided me. I reminded
her of herself.

The family were seldom together. Sharkovsky
had business interests all over the world. As well
as the helicopter, he kept a private jet at Moscow
airport. It was on permanent standby, ready to
take him to London, New York, Hong Kong or
wherever. I once glimpsed him on television,
standing next
to the President of the United
States. He took his holidays in the Bahamas or
the South of France, where he kept a hundred and
fifty metre yacht with twenty-one guest cabins,
two swimming pools and its own submarine. His
son, Ivan, was at Harrow School, in London. If
there was one thing that all wealthy Russians
wanted, it was an English public school educa-
tion for their children. Svetlana was only seven
when I arrived but she was kept busy too. There
were always private tutors coming to the house to
teach dance, piano, horse riding, tennis (they had
their own tennis court), foreign languages, po-
etry… When they were small, each child had had

two nannies; one for the day, one for the night.
Now they had two full-time housekeepers … and
me.

Sixteen members of staff lived full-time on the
estate. They all slept in wooden cabins, similar to
mine, apart from Josef and Karl, who lived in the
big house. There were the two housekeepers –
bossy women who were always in a hurry, per-
manently scowling. One of them was called Nina
and she had it in for me from the start. She used
to carry a wooden spoon in her apron and
whenever she got the chance she would clout me
over the head with it. She didn’t seem to have no-
ticed that we were both servants, on the same
level, but I didn’t dare complain. I have a feeling
that she hated working for Sharkovsky as much
as I did. The only trouble was, she’d decided to
take it out on me.

277/621

Then there was Pavel, about fifty years old,
short, twitchy, always dressed in whites. He was
very important to me because he was the chef
and it was his cooking that I would be tasting. I’ll

278/621

say this for him, he was good at his job. All the
food he prepared was delicious and I was given
things I hadn’t even known existed. Until I came
to the dacha, I had never eaten salmon, pheasant,
veal, asparagus, French cheese … or even such a
thing as a chocolate éclair. Pavel only used the
very best and the freshest
ingredients, which
were flown in from all over the world. I remem-
ber a cake he made for Maya’s birthday. It was
shaped like a Russian cathedral, complete with
gold-leaf icing on the domes. Heaven knows how
much he was given to spend.

I never got to know Pavel very well, even
though he slept in the cabin next to me. He was
hard of hearing so he didn’t talk much. He was
unmarried. He had no children. All he cared
about was his work.

The staff included a personal trainer and two
chauffeurs. Sharkovsky had a huge fleet of cars
and he was always buying more. Six armed
guards patrolled the grounds and took turns man-
ning the gatehouse. There was
a general

279/621

maintenance man, who was always smoking, al-
ways coughing. He looked after the tennis court
and the heated swimming pool in the conservat-
ory. I will not waste time describing these people
… or the gardeners, who turned up every morn-
ing and worked ten hours a day. They are not
really part of my story. They were simply there.

But I must mention the helicopter pilot, a very
quiet man in his forties, with silver hair cut short
in a military style. His name was Arkady Zelin
and he had once flown with the VVS – the Soviet
Air Force. He neither drank nor
smoked.
Sharkovsky would never have put his life in the
hands of a man who was not utterly dependable.
He was always on standby in case his master
needed to get somewhere in a hurry, so he might
spend weeks at the dacha between flights, and
once the helicopter had been tied down there was
little for him to do. Just
like Maya, he read
books. He also kept himself fit, doing press-ups
and running around the grounds. Sharkovsky had

280/621

a gymnasium as well as the pool but Zelin wasn’t
allowed to use either of them.

Zelin was one of the few people who bothered
to introduce himself to me and I was quick to let
him know about my old love of helicopters. He
piloted a two-bladed Bell 206 JetRanger with
seating for four passengers – Sharkovsky had
ordered it from Canada – and although I wasn’t
allowed near it, I often found myself gazing at it
across the lawn. Escape was too dangerous to
consider, but even so, in my wilder moments, it
sometimes occurred to me that
the helicopter
might be my only way out. I couldn’t hide in it.
I’d have been spotted at once unless I crawled in-
to the luggage compartment and that was always
kept locked. But maybe, one day, I would be able
to persuade Zelin to take me with him – if he was
flying alone. It was a foolish thought but I had to
keep some sort of hope alive in my head or I’d go
mad. And so I stayed close to him. The two of us
would play Durak together, the same game that I
had played with Dima, Roman and Grigory.

Sometimes I wondered what had happened to
them. But as time went on, I thought about them
less and less.

281/621

One other member of the staff was important
to me. His name was Nigel Brown and he was
English, a thin, elderly man with straggly ginger
hair and a pinched face. He had once been the
headmaster of a prep school in Norfolk and still
dressed as if he worked there, with corduroy
trousers and, every day, the same tweed jacket
with leather patches on the elbows. Zelin told me
there had been some sort of scandal at the school
and he had been forced to take early retirement. It
was certainly true that Mr Brown never talked
about his time there. Sharkovsky had hired him
as a private tutor, to help Ivan and Svetlana pass
their exams. Other tutors came and went but he
lived at the dacha permanently.

All the staff met every evening. Just as I had
thought, the brick building which I had seen be-
side the cabins was a recreation room with a kit-
chen and dining area, where we ate our meals.

the guards who weren’t on duty,

There were a few battered sofas and chairs, a
snooker table, a television, a coffee machine and
a public telephone – although all calls were mon-
itored and I wasn’t allowed to use it at all. After
dinner,
the
chauffeurs and sometimes the chef would sit and
smoke. Mr Brown had nothing to say to any of
them but perhaps because I was so young, he
took an interest in me and decided for no good
reason to teach me English. It soon became a per-
sonal project and he took delight in my progress.
It turned out that I had a natural aptitude for lan-
guages and after a while he began to teach me
French and German too. Most of the languages I
speak today, I owe to him.

282/621

While he taught me, he drank. Maybe this was
what had led to his downfall in Norfolk, but at
the start of each lesson he would open a bottle of
vodka and by the end of it I could hardly work
out what he was saying, no matter what the lan-
guage. By midnight he was usually unconscious
and there were many occasions when I had to

283/621

carry him back to his room. There was, however,
one aspect of his drinking habit that was useful to
me. He was not a cautious man and under the in-
fluence of alcohol he didn’t care what he said.

It was Nigel Brown who told me what little I

knew about Sharkovsky.

“How did he make all his money?” I once
asked. It was a warm evening about six months
after I had arrived. There was no breeze and the
mosquitoes were whining beneath the electric
lights.

“Ah, well, that’s all politics,” he replied. We
had been talking in English but now he slipped
back into Russian, which he spoke fluently. “The
end of Communism in your country created a sort
of vacuum. A few men stepped in and he was one
of them. They’ve sucked all the money out of
your country, every last ruble. Some of them
have made billions! Mr Sharkovsky invested in
companies. Scrap metal, chemicals, cars… He
bought and he sold and the money flowed in.”
“But why does he need so much protection?”

284/621

“Because he’s an evil bastard.” He smiled as if
was surprised by what he had just said but de-
cided to continue anyway. “Mr Sharkovsky is
connected with the police. He’s connected with
the politicians. He’s connected with the mafia.
He’s a very dangerous man. God knows how
many people he’s killed to get to where he is. But
the trouble is, you can’t go on like that without
making enemies. He really is a shark.” He re-
peated the last word in English. “Do you know
the word ‘shark’, Yassen? It’s a big fish. A dan-
gerous fish. It will gobble you up. Now, let’s get
back to these irregular verbs, past tense. I buy,
you bought. I see, you saw. I speak, you spoke…”
Sharkovsky must have had plenty of enemies.
We lived our life under siege at the dacha, and as
I had discovered, painfully, there was no way in
or out. There were X-ray machines and metal de-
tectors at the main gates – just like at a modern
airport – and nobody was allowed in or out
without being searched. The gardeners arrived
empty-handed and were expected to leave their

285/621

tools behind when they finished work. The tutors,
the drivers, the housekeepers … each person’s
background had been checked except for mine,
but then my background didn’t matter. Josef and
Karl always stayed close to their boss. The
CCTV cameras were on at all times. Everyone
watched everyone else. Other businessmen in
Russia were careful but none of them went to
these extremes. Sharkovsky was paranoid but, as
I had seen for myself in that basement refrigerat-
or, he had good reason to be.

He was extremely careful about what he ate
and drank. For example, he only accepted miner-
al water from bottles that he had opened himself
after checking that the seal had not been broken.
The bottles always had to be glass. His enemies
might be able to contaminate a plastic one using
a hypodermic syringe. He sometimes ate food
straight from the packet or the tin, pronging it in-
to his mouth with no sign of pleasure, but if it ar-
rived on a plate, I would have to taste it first.

286/621

Most times, I would report to the kitchen be-
fore the meals were sent out and I would eat
straight out of the pans, with Josef or Karl watch-
ing over me and Pavel standing nervously to one
side. It’s hard to describe how I felt about this.
On one level, I have to admit that there was a part
of me that enjoyed it. As I have said, the food
was superb. But at the same time, it was still an
unpleasant experience. First of all, one mouthful
was all I was allowed and I was always aware
that one mouthful might be enough to kill me. In
a way, every tasting session was the same as the
Russian roulette I had been forced to play on my
first night. I learned to attune my senses to look
out for the acrid taste of poison or simply the sus-
picion that something might not be right. The
trouble was, by the time I detected it, it might
well have killed me.

After a while, I put the whole thing out of my
mind. I simply did what I was told, robotically,
without complaining. You might say that I had a
very strange relationship with death. The two of

us were constantly together, side by side. And yet
we ignored each other. In this way, we were able
to get by.

287/621

What I most dreaded were the formal dinners
that I was forced to attend in the huge dining
room with its brilliant chandeliers, gold and
white curtains, antique French table and chairs,
and countless flickering candles. Sharkovsky of-
ten invited business associates and friends …
people he knew well. To begin with, I was wor-
ried that Misha Dementyev, the professor from
Moscow State University, might show up. He
knew Sharkovsky. Indeed he – along with my
own stupidity – was the reason I was here. What
would happen if he recognized me? Would it
make my situation worse? But he never did ap-
pear and it occurred to me that he was probably a
minor employee in Sharkovsky’s empire and that
it was very unlikely that he would receive an in-
vitation. Nearly all the guests arrived in expens-
ive
in their own

cars. Some

even came

helicopters. They were as rich and as vicious as
Sharkovsky himself.

I had been given a grey suit with a white shirt
and a black tie for these events – the same uni-
form as his bodyguards – and I would stand be-
hind him as I had been instructed, looking down
at the floor with my hands held behind my back.
I was not allowed to speak. As each course was
served, I would step forward and, using my own
cutlery, would take a sample directly from his
plate, eat it, nod and step back again. There was
no doubt that Sharkovsky was afraid for his life
but at the same time he was enjoying himself. He
loved playing the Roman emperor, showing me
off to his other guests, deliberately humiliating
me in front of them.

288/621

But if the father was bad, his son was much,
much worse. Ivan Sharkovsky first became aware
of me at one of those dinners and although I
wasn’t supposed to look at the guests, I noticed
him examining me out of the corner of my eye.
Ivan, a year older than me, resembled his father

289/621

in many ways. He had the same dark qualities but
they had been distributed differently – in his
curly black hair, his heavy jowls, his down-
turned mouth. He seemed to be constantly brood-
ing about something. His father was solid and
muscular. He was fat with puffy cheeks, thick
lips and eyelids that were slightly too large for
his eyes. Sitting hunched over the table, spooning
food into his mouth, he had something brutish
about him.

“Papa?” he asked. “Where did you get him

from?”

“Who?” Sharkovsky was at the head of the
table with Maya sitting next to him. She was
wearing a huge diamond necklace that sparkled
in the light. Whenever there were guests, he in-
sisted that she smothered herself in jewellery.

“The food taster!”
“From Moscow.” Sharkovsky dismissed the
question as if he had simply picked me up in a
shop.

“Can he taste my food?”

290/621

Shakovsky leant forward and jabbed a fork in
the direction of his son. He had been drinking
heavily – champagne and vodka – and although
he wasn’t drunk, there was a looseness about the
way he spoke. “You don’t need a food taster.
You’re not important. Nobody would want to kill
you.”

course he knew.

The other guests all took this as a joke and
laughed uproariously, but Ivan scowled and I
knew that I would be hearing from him soon.

And the very next day, he came outside and
found me. It was a cold afternoon. I was washing
one of his father’s cars, spraying it with a hose.
As soon as I saw him coming, I stopped my work
and looked down. This was what I had been
taught. We had to treat the whole family as if
they were royalty. Part of me hoped he would
simply walk on, but I could see it wasn’t going to
happen. I knew straight away that I was in
trouble.

“What is your name?” he asked, although of

the name I always used now.

“I’m Ivan.”
“Yes,” I said. “I know.”
He looked at me questioningly and I could feel
the sense of menace hanging in the air. “But you
don’t call me that, do you?”

“No … sir.” It made me sick having to say the

words but I knew that was what he wanted.

He glanced at the car. “How long has it taken

“Yassen Gregorovich,” I answered. That was

291/621

you to clean that? he asked.

“An hour,” I said. It was true. The car was the
Bentley and it had been filthy. When I had fin-
ished with it, it would have to look as if it had
just come out of the showroom.

“Let me help you.”
He gestured for the hose, which was still
spouting water onto the ground, and, dreading
what was to come, I handed it to him. First he
pointed it at the car. He placed his thumb over
the end so that the water rushed out in a jet. It
poured over the windscreen and down over the

292/621

doors. Then he turned it on me … my head, my
chest, my arms, my legs. I could only stand there
uselessly as he soaked me. Had this happened in
my village, I would have knocked him to the
ground. Right then I had to use all my self-re-
straint to stop myself punching him in the face.
But that was exactly what he was showing me.
He had complete power over me. He could do
anything to me that he wanted.

When he had finished, he smirked and handed
the hose back to me. Finally, he noticed the buck-
et of muddy water beside the car. He kicked out,
sending the contents spraying over the bodywork.
“Bad luck, Yassen,” he said. “You’re going to

After that, he tormented me all the time. His
father must have known what was happening –
Ivan would have never acted in this way without
his authority – but he allowed it to carry on. And
so I would get an order, usually transmitted by

have to start again.”

walked away.

I stood there, dripping wet, as he turned and

293/621

Josef, Karl or one of the housekeepers. It didn’t
matter if it was morning or the middle of the
night. I would go up to the big house and there he
would be with football boots that needed clean-
ing, suitcases that needed carrying or even
crumpled clothes that needed ironing. He liked
me to see his room, spacious and comfortable,
filled with so many nice things, because he knew
I lived in a small wooden cabin with nothing.
And despite what Sharkovsky had said, he some-
times got me to taste his food for him, watching
with delight as I leant over his plate. Often, he
would play tricks with me. I would discover that
he had deliberately filled the food with salt or
chilli powder so that it would make me sick. I
used to long for the day he would return to his
school in England and I would finally be left
alone.

Three years…
I grew taller and stronger. I learned to speak
different
languages. But otherwise I might as
well have been dead. I saw nothing of the world

294/621

except what was shown on the television news.
The horror of my situation was not the drudgery
of my work and the daily humiliations I received.
It was in the dawning realization that I might be
here for the rest of my life, that even as an old
man I might be cleaning toilets and corridors and,
worse still, that I might be grateful. Already, I
could feel part of myself accepting what I had
turned into. I no longer thought about escaping. I
didn’t even think about what might exist on the
other side of the wall. Once, I found myself look-
ing in the mirror because there was a stain on my
shirt. There was to be a dinner that night and I
was genuinely embarrassed, afraid I would let my
master down. At that moment I was disgusted
with myself. I saw, quite clearly, what I was be-
coming … perhaps what I had already become.

I never thought of Estrov. It was as if my par-
ents had not existed. Even my time in Moscow
seemed far behind me. It was obvious that Dima
would never find me and even if he did I would
be out of his reach. All I could think about was

the work I would do the next day. This was
Sharkovsky’s revenge. He had allowed me to
keep my life but he had taken away my
humanity.

And so it might have continued.
But things changed quite suddenly in the early
summer of my third year of captivity. Ivan had
just finished his last year at Harrow and was due
back any time. Svetlana was staying with friends
near the Black Sea. Sharkovsky was having an-
other dinner party and I had been told to report to
the dining room to help with the preparations.

295/621

For some reason, I arrived early. As I walked
up to the house, a car passed me and stopped at
the front door. A man got out, rang the bell and
hurried inside. I had seen him before. His name
was Brodsky and he was one of Sharkovsky’s
business associates from Moscow. The two of
them owned several companies together and they
were connected in other ways it was probably
best not to know. I went into the kitchen and a
few moments later,
the telephone rang. Mr

296/621

Brodsky wanted tea. Pavel was busy preparing
the dinner – a broiled Atlantic salmon, which he
was decorating with red and black caviar. The
housekeepers were laying the table. I was there
and in my suit so I made the tea and carried it up.
I crossed the hallway, which was now so fa-
miliar to me that I could have made my way
blindfolded. The sweeping staircase, the marble
pillars, the huge bowl of flowers and the chan-
delier no longer meant anything to me. I had seen
them too often. The door to the study was half
open as I approached and normally I would have
knocked and entered, set the tray down on a table
and left as quickly as I could. But this time, just
as I drew close, I heard a single word that
stopped me in my tracks and rooted me to
the floor.

“They’re asking questions about

it again.
Estrov. We’re going to have to do something be-
fore the situation gets out of hand…”

Estrov.
My village.

297/621

It had been Brodsky who had spoken. Estrov.
What could he possibly know about Estrov?
Hardly daring to breathe, I waited for Sharkovsky
to reply.

“You can deal with it, Mikhail.”
“It’s not as easy as that, Vladimir. These are
Western journalists, working in London. If they
connect you with what happened…”

“Why should they?”
“They’re not stupid. They’ve already dis-

covered you were a shareholder.”

“So what?” Sharkovsky didn’t sound con-
cerned. “There were lots of shareholders. What
exactly am I supposed to have done?”

“You wanted them to raise productivity. You
wanted more profit. You ordered them to change
the safety procedures.”

“Are you accusing me, Mikhail?”
“No. Of course not. I’m your closest advisor
and your friend and why should I care if a few
peasants got killed? But these people smell a
story. And it would be seriously damaging to us

“It was all

taken care of at

the time,”
Sharkovsky replied. “There was no evidence left.
Our friends in the ministry made sure of that. It
never happened! Let these stupid journalists sniff
around and ask questions. They won’t find any-
thing. And if I do come to believe that they are
dangerous to me or to my business, then I’ll deal
with them. Even in London there are car acci-
dents. Now stop worrying and have a drink.”

if the name of Estrov were to be mentioned in the
British press or anywhere else.”

298/621

“I ordered tea.”
“It should be here. I’ll call down.”
It was a miracle I hadn’t been caught listening
outside. If Karl or Josef had come down the stairs
and seen me, I would have been beaten. But I
couldn’t go in quite yet. I had to wait for the
echoes of the conversation to die away. I counted
to ten, then knocked on the door and entered. I
kept my face blank. It was vital that they should
not know that I had heard them talking. But as I
crossed the carpet
to where the visitor was

you so long, Yassen?” he asked.

“I’m sorry, sir,” I said. “I had to wait for the

kettle to boil.”

sitting, the cup and the saucer rattled on the silver
tray and I’m sure there can’t have been any col-
our in my face.

Sharkovsky barely glanced at me. “What took

299/621

“Very well. Get out.”
I bowed and left as quickly as I could.
I was shaking by the time I returned to the hall.
It was as if all the pain and misery I had suffered
in the last three years had been bundled together
and then slammed into me, delivering one final,
knock-out blow. It wasn’t enough that Vladimir
Sharkovsky had been endlessly cruel to me. It
wasn’t enough that he had reduced me to the role
of his mindless slave. He was also directly im-
plicated in the deaths of my mother and father, of
Leo and of everyone else in the village.

Was it really such a surprise? When I had first
heard his name, it had been at the university in
Moscow. He had been talking to Misha

Dementyev on the telephone and Dementyev had
been implicated in what had happened. Nigel
Brown had warned me too. He had told me that
Sharkovsky invested in chemicals. I should have
made the connection. And yet how could I have?
It was almost beyond belief.

That night, as I stood at the table watching him
tear apart the salmon that I had just tasted in front
of all the other guests, I swore that I would kill
him. It was surely the reason why fate had
brought me here and it no longer mattered if I
lived or died.

300/621

I would kill him. I swore it to myself.
I would kill him.
I would kill.

МЕХАНИК

THE MECHANIC

I barely slept that night. Every time I closed my
eyes, my thoughts turned to guns,
to kitchen
knives, to the forks and spades that were used in
the garden, to hammers and fire axes. The truth
was
surrounded by weapons.
Sharkovsky was used to having me around. I
could reach him and have my revenge for Estrov
before anyone knew what had happened.

I was

that

But what good would it do? Josef and Karl –
of course I knew which was which by now –
were always nearby and even assuming I could
get to Sharkovsky before they stopped me, they
would deal with me immediately afterwards. Ly-
ing in my simple wooden bed,
in my empty
room, looking at the cold light of day, I saw that

303/621

any action on my part would only lead to my own
death. There had to be another way.

I felt sick and unhappy. I remembered Fagin
with his leather notebook, reading out the differ-
ent names and addresses in Moscow. Why had I
made this choice?

Once again, and for the first time in a very
long while, I thought about escape. I knew what
the stakes were. If I tried and failed, I would die.
But one way or another, this had to end.

I had just one advantage. By now I knew
everything about the dacha and that included all
the security arrangements. I took out one of the
exercise books that Nigel Brown had given me –
it was full of English vocabulary – and turned to
an empty page at the back. Then, using a pencil, I
drew a sketch of the compound and, resting it on
my knees, I began to consider the best way out.

There wasn’t one.
CCTV cameras covered every inch of the gar-
dens. Climbing the wall was impossible. Quite
apart from the razor wire, there were sensors

304/621

buried under the lawn and they would register my
footfall before I got close. Could I approach one
of the guards? No. They were all far too afraid of
Sharkovsky. What about his wife, Maya? Could I
somehow persuade her to take me on one of her
shopping trips to Moscow? It was a ridiculous
idea. She had no reason to help me.

Even if I did miraculously make it to the other
side, what was I to do next? I was surrounded by
countryside – the Silver Forest – with no idea of
how near I was to the nearest bus stop or station.
If I made it to Moscow, I could go back to Tver-
skaya Street. I had no doubt that Dima would
hide me … assuming he was still
there. But
Sharkovsky would use all his police and under-
world contacts to hunt me down. It wouldn’t
bother him that he had been keeping me a prison-
er for three years and he had treated me in a way
that was certainly illegal. It was just that we had
made a deal and he would make sure I kept it. I
worked for him or I was dead.

305/621

For the next few weeks, everything went on as
before. I cleaned, I washed, I bowed, I scraped.
But for me, nothing was the same. I could hardly
bear to be in the same room as Sharkovsky. Tast-
ing his food made me physically sick. This was
the man responsible for what had happened to
Estrov,
the unnamed investor my parents had
been complaining about the night before they
died. If I couldn’t escape from him, I would go
mad. I would kill him or I would kill myself. I
simply couldn’t stay here any more.

I had hidden the exercise book under my mat-
tress and every night I took it out and jotted down
my thoughts. Slowly, I realized that I had been
right from the very start. There was only one way
out of
this place – and that was the Bell
JetRanger helicopter. I turned to a new page and
wrote down the name of the pilot, Arkady Zelin,
then underlined it twice. What did I know about
him? How could I persuade him to take me out of
here? Did he have any weaknesses, anything I
could exploit?

306/621

We had known each other for three years but I
wouldn’t say we were friends. Zelin was a very
solitary person, often preferring to eat alone.
Even so, it was impossible to live in such close
confinement without giving things away and the
fact was that we did talk to each other, particu-
larly when we were playing cards. Zelin liked the
fact that I was interested in helicopters. He’d
even let me examine the workings of the engine
once or twice, when he was stripping it down for
general maintenance, although he had drawn the
line at allowing me to sit in the cockpit. The se-
curity guards wouldn’t have been happy about
that. And then there was Nigel Brown. He knew
a bit about Zelin too and when he’d had a few
drinks he would share it with me.

Arkady Zelin
Soviet Air Force. Gambling?
Saratov.
Wife? Son.
Skiing… France/Switzerland. Retire?

This was about the total knowledge that I had of
the man who might fly me out of the dacha. I
wrote it down in my exercise book and stared at
the useless words, sitting there on the empty
page.

What did they add up to?
Zelin had been in the Soviet Air Force but he’d
been caught stealing money from a friend. There
had been a court martial and he had been forced
to leave. He was still bitter about the whole thing
and claimed that he was innocent, that he had
been set up, but the truth was he was always
broke. It was possible that he was addicted to
gambling. I often saw him looking at the racing
pages in the newspapers and once or twice I
heard him making bets over the phone.

307/621

Zelin owned a crummy flat in the city of Sar-
atov, on the Volga River, but he hardly ever went
there. He had three weeks’ holiday a year – he
often complained it wasn’t enough – and he liked
to travel abroad, to Switzerland or France in the
winter. He loved skiing. He once told me that he

308/621

I

would like to work in a ski resort and had talked
briefly about heli-skiing – flying rich people to
the top of glaciers and watching them ski down.
He had been married and he carried a photograph
in his wallet … a boy who was about eleven or
twelve years old, presumably his son.
re-
membered the day when I had come into the re-
creation room with a huge bruise on my face. I’d
made a bad job of polishing the silver and Josef
had lost control and almost knocked me out.
Zelin had seen me and although he had said noth-
ing, I could tell he was shocked. Perhaps I could
appeal to him as a father? On the other hand, he
never spoke about his son … or his wife, for that
matter. He never saw either of them; perhaps
they had cut him out of their life. He was quite
lonely. He was the sort of person who looks after
number one simply because there is nobody else.
I could have scribbled until I had filled the en-
tire exercise book but it wasn’t going to help very
much. Sharkovsky had a number of trips abroad
that summer and each time he left
in the

helicopter, I would stop whatever I was doing
and watch the machine rise from the launch pad
and hover over the trees before disappearing into
the sky. I had nothing I could offer – no money,
no bribe. I knew that there was no way Zelin was
going to fall out with his employer. In the end I
forgot about him and began to think of other
plans.

We came to the end of another summer and I
swore to myself that it would be my last at the
dacha, that by Christmas I would be gone. And
yet August bled into September and nothing
changed. I was feeling sick and angry with my-
self. No only had I not escaped, I hadn’t even
tried. Worse still, Ivan Sharkovsky had returned.
He had left Harrow by now and was on his way
to Oxford University. Presumably his father had
offered to pay for a new library or a swimming
pool because I’m not sure there was any other
way he’d have got in.

309/621

I was in the garden when I first saw him, push-
ing a wheelbarrow full of leaves, taking it down

310/621

to the compost heap. Suddenly he was standing
there in front of me, blocking my path. Age had
not improved him. He was still overweight. We
were both about
the same height but he was
much heavier than me. I stopped at once and
bowed my head.

“Yassen!” he said, spitting out the two syl-
lables in a sing-song voice. “Are you glad to see
me?”

“Yes, sir,” I lied.
“Still slaving for my dad?”
“Yes, sir.”
He smirked at me. Then he reached down and
picked up a handful of filthy leaves from the
wheelbarrow. I was wearing a tracksuit and, very
deliberately, he shoved the leaves down the front
of my chest. Then he laughed and walked away.

From that moment on, there was a new, very
disturbing edge to his behaviour. His attacks on
me became more physical. If he was angry with
me, he would slap me or punch me, which was
something he had never done before. Once, at the

dinner table, I spilt some of his wine and he
picked up a fork and jabbed it into my thigh. His
father saw this but said nothing. In a way, the two
of them were equally mad. I was afraid that Ivan
wouldn’t be satisfied until I was dead.

That was the month that Nigel Brown was
fired. He wasn’t particularly surprised. He was
no longer tutoring Ivan, and his sister, Svetlana,
had been accepted into Cheltenham Ladies’ Col-
lege in England so there was nothing left for him
to do. Mr Brown was sixty by now and his teach-
ing days were over. He talked about going back
to Norfolk but he didn’t seem to have any fond-
ness for the place. It’s often interested me how
some people can follow a single path through life
that takes them to somewhere they don’t want to
be. It was hard to believe that this crumpled old
man with his vodka and his tweed jacket had
once been a child, full of hopes and dreams. Was
this what he had been born to be?

311/621

I was having dinner with him one evening,
shortly before he left. Arkady Zelin had joined

312/621

us. He had returned from Moscow that morning
with Sharkovsky, who had flown in from the Un-
ited States. Mr Brown hadn’t begun drinking yet
– at least he’d only had a couple of glasses – and
he was in a reflective mood.

“You’re going to have to keep up your lan-
guages, Yassen, once I’m gone,” he was saying.
“Maybe they’ll let me send you books. There are
very good tapes these days.”

He was being kind but I knew he didn’t really
mean what he was saying. Once he was gone, I
would never hear from him again.

“What about you, Arkady?” he went on. “Are

you going to stay working here?”

“I have no reason to leave,” Zelin said.
“No. I can see you’re doing well for yourself.

Nice new watch!”

It was typical of my teacher to notice a detail
like that. When we were doing exercises togeth-
er, he could instantly spot a single misspelt word
in the middle of a whole page. I glanced at

Zelin’s wrist just in time to see him draw it away,
covering it with his sleeve.

“It was given to me,” he said. “It’s nothing.”
“A Rolex?”
“Why do you interest yourself in things that
don’t concern you? Why don’t you mind your
own business?”

313/621

For the rest of the meal, Zelin barely spoke –
and when he had finished eating he left the room,
even though we’d agreed to play cards. I did an
hour’s German with Mr Brown but my heart
wasn’t in it and in the end he gave up, dragged
the bottle off the table and plonked himself in an
armchair in the corner. I was left on my own,
thinking. It was a small detail. A new Rolex. But
it was strange the way Zelin had tried to conceal
it, and why had it made him so angry?

I might have forgotten all about it but the next
day something else happened which brought it
back to my mind. Sharkovsky was leaving for
Leningrad at the end of the week. It was an im-
portant visit and he much preferred to fly than go

314/621

by road. During the course of the morning, I saw
Zelin working on the helicopter, carrying out a
routine inspection. There was nothing unusual
about that. But just before lunch, he presented
himself at the house. I happened to be close by,
cleaning the ground-floor windows, and I heard
every word that was said.

“I’m very sorry, sir,” he said. “We can’t use

the helicopter.”

Sharkovsky had come to the front door,
dressed in riding gear. He had taken up riding the
year before and had bought two horses – one for
himself, one for his wife. He’d also built a stable
close to the tennis court and employed one of the
gardeners as a groom. Zelin was standing in his
overalls, wiping his hands on a white handker-
chief that was smeared with oil.

“What’s wrong with it?” Sharkovsky snapped.
He had been very short-tempered recently. There
was a rumour that things hadn’t been going too
well with his business. Maybe that was why he
had been travelling so much.

315/621

“There’s been a servo actuator malfunction,
sir,” Zelin said. “One of the piston rods shows
signs of cracking.
It’s going to have to be
replaced.”

“Can you do it?”
“No, sir. Not really. Anyway, we have to order

the part…”

Sharkovsky was in a hurry. “Well, why don’t
you call in the mechanic … what’s his name …
Borodin?”

“I called his office just now. It’s annoying but
he’s ill.” He paused. “They can send someone
else.”

“Reliable?”
“Yes, sir. His name is Rykov. I’ve worked

with him.”

“All right. See to it.”
Maya was waiting for him. He stormed off

without saying another word.

I didn’t know for certain that Zelin was lying
but I had a feeling that something was wrong.
Every day at the dacha was the same. When I say

316/621

that life went like clockwork, I mean it had that
same dull, mechanical quality. But now there
were three coincidences and they had all
happened at the same time. The helicopter had
been fine the day before but suddenly it was
broken. The usual mechanic – a brisk, talkative
man who turned up every couple of months –
was mysteriously ill. And then there was that
new watch, and the strange way that Zelin had
behaved.

There was something else. It occurred to me
that it really wasn’t so difficult to replace a piston
rod. I had been reading helicopter magazines all
my life and knew almost as much as if I’d actu-
ally been flying myself. I was sure that Zelin
would have a spare and should have been able to
fix it himself.

So what was he up to? I said nothing, but for
the rest of the day I kept my eye on him and
when the new mechanic arrived that same after-
noon, I made sure I was there.

317/621

He came in a green van marked MVZ Heli-
copters and I saw him step out to have his pass-
port and employment papers checked by the
guards. He was a short, plump man with a mop of
grey hair that sprawled over his head and several
folds of fat around his chin. He was dressed in
green overalls with the same initials, MVZ, on
the top pocket. He had to wait while the guards
searched his van – for once, their metal detectors
weren’t going to help them. The back was
jammed with spare parts. He didn’t seem to mind
though. He stood there smoking a cigarette and
when they finally let him through he gave them a
friendly wave and drove straight across to the
helicopter pad. Arkady Zelin was waiting for him
there and they spent the rest of the day working
together, stripping down the engine and doing
whatever it was they had to do.

It was a warm afternoon, and at four o’clock
one of the housekeepers sent me over to the heli-
copter with a tray of lemonade and sandwiches.

The mechanic – Rykov – came strutting towards
me with a smile on his face.

“Who are you?” he demanded.
“My name is Yassen, sir.”
“And what’s in these sandwiches?” He prised
one open with a grimy thumb. “Ham and cheese.
Thanks, Yassen. That’s very nice of you.” He
was already eating, talking with his mouth full.
Then he signalled to Zelin and the two of them
went back to work.

318/621

I saw him a second time when I came back to
pick up the tray. Once again he was pleased to
see me but I thought that Zelin was more re-
strained. He was quieter than I had ever known
him and this was a man I knew fairly well. You
cannot play cards with someone and not get a
sense of the way they think. I would have said he
was nervous. I wondered why he wasn’t wearing
his new watch today. By now, the helicopter was
almost completely reassembled. I lingered with
the two men, waiting to take back the tray. And it
seemed only natural to chat.

put them back together.”

“Is it difficult?”
“You have to know what you’re doing.”
“Wouldn’t you like to fly?”
He shook his head. “Not really.” He took out a
cigarette and lit it. “I wouldn’t know what to do
with a joystick between my legs. I prefer to keep
my feet safely on the ground.”

“Do you fly these?” I asked the mechanic.
“Not me,” he said. “I just take them apart and

319/621

“That’s

enough, Yassen,” Zelin growled.

“Don’t you have work to do? Go and do it.”

“Yes, Mr Zelin.”
I picked up the tray with the dirty glasses and
carried it back to the house. But I’d already dis-
covered everything I needed to know. The mech-
anic knew nothing about helicopters. Even I
could have told him that a Bell helicopter doesn’t
have a joystick. It has a cyclic control which
transmits instructions to the rotor blades. And it’s
not in front of you. It’s to one side. Zelin had lied
about the malfunction just as he had lied about

the usual mechanic, Borodin, being sick. I was
sure of it.

From that moment, I didn’t let them out of my
sight. I knew I would get into trouble. There were
ten pairs of shoes I was meant to polish and a
whole pile of crates to be broken up in the cellar.
But there was no way I was going to disappear
inside. Zelin was planning something. If Rykov
wasn’t a helicopter mechanic, what was he? A
thief? A spy? It didn’t matter. Zelin had brought
him into the compound and had to be part of it.
This was the opportunity I’d been waiting for. I
could blackmail him. Suddenly I saw him with
his hand on the cyclic. He could fly me out.

320/621

My biggest worry was that Ivan would return
to the dacha. He’d gone into Moscow for the
day, driving the new Mercedes sports car that his
father had bought him for his birthday, but if he
came back and saw me, the chances were that he
would find some task for me to do. At five
o’clock there was still no sign of him but
Sharkovsky and his wife returned from a ride and

321/621

I helped them down from the saddle and walked
the horses back to the stable. All the gardeners
had gone. There were just the usual guards, walk-
ing in pairs, unaware that anything unusual was
going on.

As I got back to the house, I heard the heli-
copter start up, the whine of the engine rising as
the rotors picked up speed. There was no sign of
Rykov but the van with the MVZ logo was still
parked close by so I knew he couldn’t have left. I
pretended to walk into the house but at the last
minute I hurried forward and ducked behind one
of the cars. It was actually the Lexus that had
first brought me here. If anyone found me there, I
would pretend I was cleaning it.

I could see Arkady Zelin inside the cockpit,
checking the controls, and suddenly the mechanic
emerged from the other side of the helicopter and
began to walk towards me, towards the house,
carrying a sheaf of papers. If the guards had seen
him, it would have looked completely natural. He
had finished the job and he needed someone to

sign the documentation. But he was being care-
ful. He kept to the shadows. Nobody except me
saw him go in through the side door.

I followed. I didn’t know what I was going to
do because I still hadn’t worked out what was
happening. All I knew was, it wasn’t what it
seemed.

322/621

I crept down the corridor past

the service
rooms – the laundry and the boot room, where I
had spent so many hundreds of hours, day and
night, in mindless drudgery. There was nobody
around and that was very unusual. The mechanic
couldn’t have just walked into the house. One of
the housekeepers would have challenged him and
then made him wait while she went to fetch Josef
or Karl. Rykov had only entered a few seconds
ahead of me. He should have been here now. I
felt the silence all around me. None of the lights
were on. I glanced into the kitchen. There was a
pot of soup or stew bubbling away on top of the
stove but no sign of Pavel.

323/621

I was tempted to call out but something told
me to stay quiet. I continued past the pantry. The
door was ajar and that too was strange, as it was
always kept locked in case the dog went in. I
pushed it open and at that moment everything
made sense. It should have been obvious from
the start. How could I have been so slow not to
see it?

The housekeeper was there, lying on the floor.
I had lost count of the number of times that Nina
had snapped at me, scolding me for being too
slow or too clumsy, hitting me on the head
whenever she got the chance. I could see the
wooden spoon still tucked into her apron but she
wasn’t going to be using it. She had been shot at
close range, obviously with a silencer because I
hadn’t heard the sound of the gun. She was on
her back with her hands spread out, as if in sur-
prise. There was a pool of blood around her
shoulders.

Arkady Zelin had been bribed. There was no
other explanation. He never had any money but

324/621

suddenly he had an expensive new watch. Rykov
was an assassin who had come here to kill
Sharkovsky. The safest way to smuggle a gun in-
to the compound – perhaps the only way to get
past the metal detectors and X-ray machines –
was to bring it in a truck packed with metal
equipment. It would have been easy enough to
dismantle it and scatter the separate parts among
the other machinery. And the fastest way out
after he had done his work was the helicopter,
which was waiting even now, with the rotors at
full velocity.

My mouth was dry. My every instinct was to
turn and run. If Rykov saw me, he would kill me
without even thinking about it, just as he had
killed Nina. But I didn’t leave. I couldn’t. This
was the only chance I would ever get and I had to
take it. There was a small axe hanging in the
pantry. I had used it until there were blisters all
over my hands, chopping kindling for the fire in
Sharkovsky’s study. Making as little noise as
possible and doing my best not to look at the

325/621

dead woman, I unhooked it. An axe would be
little use against a gun, but even so, I felt safer
having some sort of weapon. I continued to the
door that led into the main hall. It was half open.
Hardly daring to breathe, I looked through.
I had arrived just in time for the endgame.
The hall was in shadow. The sun was setting
behind the house and its last rays were too low to
reach the windows. The lights were out. I could
hear the shrill whine of the helicopter outside in
the distance but a curtain of silence seemed to
have fallen on the house. Josef was lying on the
stairs, where he had been gunned down. Rykov
was standing in front of me, edging forward, an
automatic pistol with a silencer in his hand.

He was making his way towards the study, his
feet making no sound on the thick carpet. But
even as I watched, the door of the study opened
and Vladimir Sharkovsky came out, dressed in a
suit and tie but with his jacket off. He must have
heard the disturbance, the body tumbling down

the stairs, and had come out to see what was
happening.

326/621

“What…?” he began.
Rykov didn’t say anything. He stepped for-
ward and shot my employer three times, the bul-
lets thudding into his chest and stomach so
quietly that I barely heard them. The effect was
catastrophic. Sharkovsky was thrown backwards
… off his feet. His head hit the carpet first. If the
bullets hadn’t killed him, he would surely have
broken his neck. His legs jerked then became
still.

What did I feel at that moment? Nothing. Of
course I wasn’t going to waste any tears on
Sharkovsky. I was glad he was dead. But I
couldn’t find it in myself to celebrate the death of
another human being. I was frightened. I was still
wondering how I could turn this to my advant-
age. Everything was happening so quickly that I
didn’t have time to work out my emotions. I sup-
pose I was in a state of shock.

darkness.

“Don’t turn round. Put the gun down!”
Rykov twisted his head but saw nothing. I was
hiding behind the door, out of sight. It was Karl.
He had come up from the cellar. Maybe he had
been looking for me, wondering why I hadn’t
broken up those crates. He was behind Rykov
and over to one side, edging into the hall with a
gun clasped in both hands, holding it at the same
level as his head.

Rykov froze. He was still holding the gun he
had used to kill Sharkovsky and I wondered if
he’d had time to reload. He had fired at least five
bullets. Rykov couldn’t see where the order had
come from but he remained completely calm. “I
will pay you one hundred thousand rubles to let
me leave here,” he said. He sounded very differ-
ent from the mechanic I had spoken to. His voice
was younger, more cultivated.

And then a voice came floating out of the

327/621

“Who sent you?”
“Scorpia.”

328/621

The word meant nothing to me. Nor did it
seem to have any significance for Karl. “Lower
your gun very slowly,” he said. “Put it on the car-
pet where I can see it … in front of you.”

There was nothing Rykov could do. If he
couldn’t see the bodyguard, he couldn’t kill him.
He lowered the gun to the floor.

“Kick it away.”
“If it hadn’t been me,

it would have been
someone else,” Rykov said. “Do yourself a fa-
vour. You’re out of a job. Take the money and
go.”

Silence. Rykov knew he had to do what he was
told. He kicked the gun across the carpet. It came
to a halt a few inches away from the dead man.

Karl stepped further into the hall, still holding
his gun in both hands. It was aimed at the back of
Rykov’s neck. He glanced to the right and saw
Josef lying spreadeagled on the stairs. Something
flickered across his face and I had no doubt that
he was going to shoot down the man who had
been responsible for the death of his brother. As

he moved forward, his path took him in front of
the door where I was standing and suddenly I
was behind him.

329/621

“One hundred and fifty thousand rubles,”
Rykov said. “More money than you will ever see
in your life.”

“You have killed my brother.”
Rykov understood. There was no point in ar-
guing. In Russia, blood ties, particularly between
brothers, are strong.

Karl was very close to him now and without
really thinking about it, I made the decision –
probably the most momentous of my life. I
slipped through the door and, raising the axe,
took three steps into the hall. The bodyguard
heard me at the very last moment but it was too
late. Using the blunt end, I brought
the axe
swinging down and hit him on the back of the
head. He collapsed in front of me, his arms, his
legs, his entire body suddenly limp. The mechan-
ic moved incredibly fast. He didn’t know what
had happened but he dived forward, reaching out

330/621

for the gun he had just kicked away. But I was
faster. Before he could grab it, I had dropped the
axe and swept up Karl’s gun and already I was
aiming it straight at him, doing my best to stop
my hand shaking.

Rykov saw me and stared. He was unarmed.
He couldn’t believe what had just happened.
“You!” he exclaimed.

“Listen to me,” I said. “I could shoot you now.
If I fire a single shot, everyone will come. You’ll
never get away.”

“What do you want?” he demanded.
“I want to get out of here.”
“I can’t do that.”
“Yes, you can. You have to help me!” I
scrabbled for words. “I knew you weren’t really a
mechanic. I knew you and Zelin were working
together. But I didn’t say anything. It’s thanks to
me that you managed to do what you came for.” I
nodded at the body of Vladimir Sharkovsky.

“I will give you money…”

331/621

“I don’t want money. I want you to take me
with you. I never chose to come here. I’m a pris-
oner. I’m their slave. All I’m asking is for you to
take me as far away as you can and then to leave
me. I don’t care about you or who you’re work-
ing for. I’m glad he’s dead. Do you understand?
Is it a deal?”

He pretended to think … but only very briefly.
The helicopter was still whining outside and very
soon one of the guards might ask what was hap-
pening. Arkady Zelin might panic and take off
without him. Rykov didn’t have any time. “Let
me get my gun,” he said. He stretched out his
hand.

“No!” I tightened my grip. “We’ll leave to-
gether. It’ll be better for you that way. The
guards know me and they’re less likely to ask
questions.” He still seemed to be hesitating, so I
added, “You do it my way or you never leave.”

He nodded, once. “Very well. Let’s go.”
We left together, back down the corridor, past
the room with the dead woman. I was terrified.

I was with a man who had just killed three people
without even blinking and I knew that he would
make me the fourth if I gave him the slightest
chance. I made sure I didn’t get too close to him.
If he hit out at me or tried to grab me, I would
fire the gun. This one wasn’t silenced. The sound
of the explosion would act as a general alarm.

Rykov didn’t seem at all concerned. He didn’t
speak as we left the house and walked through
the half-darkness together, skirting the fountain
and making our way across the lawn towards the
helicopter. And it had been true, what I had told
him. One of the guards saw us but did nothing.
The fact that I was walking with him meant that
everything had to be OK.

But Zelin was shocked when he saw the two of

332/621

us together. “What is he doing?” he shouted.

I could barely hear a word he said but the
meaning was obvious. I was struggling to keep
the gun steady, feeling the wind from the rotors
buffeting my arms. I knew that this was the most
dangerous part. As we climbed in, the mechanic

333/621

could wrench the gun away and kill me with it.
He could probably kill me with his bare hands. I
wasn’t sure if I should go in first or second. What
if he had another gun hidden under one of
the seats?

I made my decision. “I’m getting in first!”

I shouted. “You follow!”

As I climbed into the back seat, I kept the gun
pointed at Zelin, not the mechanic. I knew that he
couldn’t fly. If he tried anything, I would shoot
the pilot and we would both be stuck. I think he
understood my strategy. There was actually
something close to a smile as he climbed into the
seat next to the pilot.

Zelin shouted something else. The mechanic
leant forward and shouted back into his ear.
Again, it was impossible to hear. For all I knew,
he was sentencing me to death. I might have the
advantage now but their moment would come
while we were flying or perhaps when we landed.
I wouldn’t be able to keep them both covered and
one of them would get me.

An alarm went off in the house, even louder
than the scream of the helicopter. At once, the arc
lamps all exploded into life. Two of the guards
started running towards us, lifting their weapons.
At the same time, a jeep appeared from the gate-
house, its headlamps blazing, tearing across the
grass. The mechanic slammed the door and Zelin
hit the controls. The muzzles of the automatic
machine guns were flashing in the darkness.
Machine-gun bullets were strafing past. One of
them hit the cockpit but ricocheted away use-
lessly and I realized that, of course, it must be ar-
moured glass.

The helicopter rose. It turned. It rocked above
the lawn as if anchored there, unable to lift off.
Bullets filled the air like fireflies.

334/621

And then Zelin jerked the cyclic. The heli-
copter twisted round one last time and, carrying
me with it, soared away, over the wall, over the
forest and into the darkening sky.

БОЛТИНО

BOLTINO

I had done it. For the first time in three long years
I was outside the compound. Even if I hadn’t
been sitting in a helicopter, I would have felt as if
I was flying.

Sharkovsky was dead. It was nothing less than
he deserved and I was glad that he would not be
able to come after me. Would I be blamed for his
death? The guards had seen me leave with
Rykov. They knew I was part of what had
happened. But I had not been the one who had in-
vited the mechanic into the house. That had been
Zelin. With a bit of luck, Sharkovsky’s people
would concentrate on the two of them and they
would forget about me.

I was not safe yet. Far from it.

337/621

Both Zelin and Rykov had put on headphones
and although the blast of the rotors made conver-
sation impossible for me, they were able to talk
freely. What were they planning? I knew Zelin
had been angry to see me but he was not the one
in charge. Everything depended on Rykov. It
might well be that he had already radioed ahead.
There could be people waiting for me when we
landed. I could be dragged out of my seat and
shot. I knew already that human life meant noth-
ing to the so-called mechanic. He had killed
Nina, Josef and Sharkovsky without batting an
eyelid. It would make no difference to him if he
added an unknown teenager to the score.

But I didn’t care. I hated myself at the dacha. I
was eighteen years old, still cleaning toilets and
sweeping corridors, kneeling in front of Ivan to
polish his shoes or, worse, performing like a
trained monkey at his father’s dinner parties. It
had been necessary to do these things to live but
what was the point of a life so debased? If I were
to die now, at least it would be on my own terms.

I had grabbed hold of the opportunity. I had es-
caped. I had proved to myself that I was not
beaten after all.

338/621

And there were so many other things I was ex-
periencing for the first time. I had never flown
before. Even to sit in the luxurious leather seat of
the Bell JetRanger was extraordinary. It had once
been my dream to fly helicopters and here I was,
gazing over Zelin’s shoulder, watching him as he
manipulated the controls. I wished I could see
more of the countryside but it was already dark
and the outskirts of Moscow were little more than
a scattering of electric lights. I didn’t mind if I
was being taken to my death. I was happy!
Sharkovsky was finished. I had got away. I was
flying.

After about ten minutes, Rykov turned round
with a plastic bottle of water in his hand. He was
offering it to me. I shook my head. At the same
time, I retreated into the furthest corner, once
again raising the gun. I was afraid of a trick.
Rykov shrugged as if to say that I was making a

mistake, but he understood and turned back
again. We continued for another half-hour, then
began to descend. It was only the pressure in my
ears that warned me. Looking out of the window,
everything seemed to be black and I got the idea
we must be above water. Gently we touched
down. Zelin hit
the controls and the engine
stopped, the rotors slowing down.

Rykov took off his headphones and hung them
up. Then he turned to me. “What now?” he
asked.

339/621

“Where are we?” I demanded.
“On the edge of a town called Boltino. To the
north of Moscow.” He unfastened his seat belt.
“You have your wish, Yassen. You have escaped
from Vladimir Sharkovsky. I’m sure we all agree
that the world is a better place without him. As
for Arkady and me, we have a plane waiting to
take us on the next leg of our journey. I’m afraid
we have to say goodbye.”

Ignoring the gun, almost forgetting I was there,
Rykov opened the door and let himself out of the
helicopter.

Arkady Zelin faced me. “You shouldn’t have
done this,” he hissed. “You don’t know these
people…”

“Who are they?” I asked. I remembered the

name I had heard. “Scorpia…”

340/621

“They will kill you.” He undid his own belt

and scrambled out, following the mechanic.

Suddenly I didn’t want to be left on my own. I
went after them. Looking around me, I had no
idea why we had landed here. The helicopter was
resting on a strip of mud that was so light-col-
oured that on second thoughts I realized it must
be sand. An expanse of water stretched out next
to it with about thirty sailing boats and cruisers
moored to a jetty. There were trees on either side
of us and what looked like wooden hangars or
warehouses behind. The mechanic had been do-
ing something to himself as I climbed down and
by the time I reached him I was astonished to see

341/621

that he had completely changed his appearance.
The tangled grey hair was a wig. His hair was the
same colour as mine, short and neatly cut. There
had been something in his mouth, which had
changed the shape of his face, and the folds of
flesh around his chin had gone. He was suddenly
slimmer and younger. He stripped out of his oily
overalls. Underneath he was wearing a black T-
shirt and jeans. The man who had come to the
dacha in a green van marked MVZ Helicopters
had disappeared. Nobody would ever see him
again.

“Where are you going?” I asked.
“We are leaving the country.”
“In a boat?”
“In a plane, Yassen.” I looked around me, con-
fused. How could a plane possibly land here? “A
seaplane,” he went on. “Don’t you see it?”

And there it was, sitting flat on the water with
a pilot already in the cockpit, waiting to fly them
to their next destination. The seaplane was white.
It had two propellers perched high up on the

342/621

wings and a tail that was higher still so that even
without moving it looked as if it was trying to lift
itself into the air.

“Take me with you,” I said.
The mechanic who was no longer a mechanic

smiled once again. “Why should I do that?”

I still had the gun. I could have forced him to
take me … or tried to. But I knew that was a bad
idea, that it would only end up getting me killed.
Instead, I had to make a gesture, to show them I
could be trusted. It was a terrible risk but I knew
there was no other way. I turned the gun round in
my hand and gave it to him. He looked genuinely
surprised. He could shoot me where I stood and
no one would be any the wiser. Apart from Zelin
and the waiting pilot, there was nobody near.

“I saved your life,” I said. “Back at the dacha
… Karl would have shot you. And I don’t know
why you killed Sharkovsky but you couldn’t
have hated him more than I did. We’re on the
same side.”

He weighed the gun. Zelin watched the two of

343/621

“I’m not on any side. I was paid to kill him,”

us, his face pale.

Rykov said.

“Then take me with you. It doesn’t matter
where you’re going. Maybe I can work for you. I
can be useful to you. I’ll do anything you tell me.
I speak three languages. I…” My voice trailed
away.

Rykov was still holding the gun. Perhaps he
was amused. Perhaps he was wondering where to
fire the next bullet. It was impossible to tell what
was going on in his head. Eventually he spoke –
but not to me. “What do you think, Arkady?”
asked.

“I think we should leave,” Zelin said.
“With or without our extra passenger?”
There was a pause and I knew my life was
hanging in the balance. Arkady Zelin had known
me for three years. He had played cards with me.
I had never been a threat
to him. Surely he
wouldn’t abandon me now.

At last he made up his mind. “With him, if you
like. He’s not so bad. And they treated him like a
dog.”

344/621

“Very well.” Rykov slid the gun into his waist-
band. “It may well be that my employers have a
use for you. They can make the final decision.
But until then, you do exactly as you’re told.”

“Yes, sir.”
“There’s no need to call me that.”
He was already walking down the jetty to the
plane. The pilot saw him and flicked on the en-
gine. It sounded like one of the petrol
lawn-
mowers at the dacha and, looking at the tiny pro-
pellers, the ungainly wings, I wondered how it
could possibly separate itself from the water and
fly. Arkady Zelin was carrying a travel bag,
which he had brought from the helicopter. It oc-
curred to me that everything he owned must be
inside it. He was leaving Russia and, if he was
wise, he would never come back. Sharkovsky’s
people might leave me alone but they would cer-
tainly be looking for him. It was impossible to

say how much Zelin had been paid for his part in
all this but I hoped the price included a com-
pletely new identity.

We got into the plane, a four-seater. I was
lucky there was room for me. The new pilot ig-
nored me. He knew better than to ask unneces-
sary questions.

But I had to know. “Where are we going?”

345/621

I asked for a second time.

“To Venice,” Rykov said.
“And to Scorpia,” he might have added. The
most dangerous criminal organization in the
world. And I was about to walk right into its
arms.

ВЕНЕЦИЯ

VENICE

It was night-time when we landed.

Once again we came plunging out of the dark-
ness with only the sound of the engine and the
rising feeling in my stomach to tell me we had
reached the end of our journey. The seaplane hit
the water, bounced, then skimmed along the sur-
face before finally coming to rest. The pilot
turned off the engine and we were suddenly sit-
ting in complete silence, rocking gently on the
water. Looking out of the window, I could make
out a few lights twinkling in the distance. I
glanced at Rykov, his face illuminated by the
glow of the control panels, trying to work out
what was going on in his mind. I was still afraid

he would turn round and shoot me. He gave noth-
ing away.

348/621

What next?
Although I didn’t know it at the time, Venice
was a perfect destination for those travelling by
seaplane, particularly if they wished to arrive
without being seen. It is possible, of course, that
the Italian police and air traffic control had been
bribed but nobody seemed to have noticed that
we had landed. For about two minutes, no one
spoke. Then I heard the deep throb of an engine
and, with my face pressed against the window, I
saw a motor launch slip out of the darkness and
draw up next to us. The pilot opened the door and
we climbed out.

The motor launch was about thirty feet long,
made of wood, with a cabin at the front and
leather seats behind. There were two men on
board, a captain and a deckhand who helped us
climb down. If they were surprised to find them-
selves with an extra passenger, they didn’t show
it. They said nothing. Rykov gestured and I sat

349/621

out in the open at the back of the launch, even
though the night was chilly. Zelin sat opposite
me. He was clutching his travel bag, deep in
thought.

We set off and as we went I heard the seaplane
start up and take off again. I was already im-
pressed. Everything about
this operation had
been well planned and executed down to the last
detail. There had been only one mistake … and
that was me. It took us about ten minutes to make
the crossing, pulling into a ramshackle wooden
jetty with striped poles slanting in different direc-
tions. Rykov stepped out and waited for me to
follow but Zelin stayed where he was and I real-
ized he was not coming with us.

I held out a hand to the helicopter pilot.
“Thank you,” I said. “Thank you for letting me
come with you.”

“That place was horrible and Sharkovsky was
beneath contempt,” Zelin replied. “All
those
things they did to you… I’m sorry I didn’t help.”

“It’s over now.”

“For both of us.” He shook my hand. “I hope it

350/621

works out for you, Yassen. Take care.”

I climbed onto the jetty and the boat pulled
away. Moments later it had disappeared over the
lagoon.

Rykov and I continued on foot. He took me to
a flat in an area near the old dockyards where we
had disembarked. Why do I call him Rykov? As I
was soon to discover, it was not his name. He
was not a mechanic. I’m not even sure that he
was Russian, although he spoke my language flu-
ently. He told me nothing about himself in the
time I was with him and I was wise enough not to
ask. When you are in his sort of business – now
my business – you are not defined by who you
are but who you are not. If you want to stay
ahead of the police and the investigation agen-
cies, you must never leave a trace of yourself
behind.

We reached a doorway between two shops in
an anonymous street. Rykov unlocked it and we
entered a hallway with a narrow,
twisting

351/621

staircase leading up. His flat was on the fourth
floor. He unlocked a second door and turned on
the light. I found myself in a square, white-
washed room with a high ceiling and exposed
beams. It had very little personality and I guessed
it was merely somewhere he stayed when he was
in Venice rather than a home. The furniture
looked new. There was a sofa facing a television,
a dining table with four chairs, and a small kit-
chen. The pictures on the wall were views of the
city, probably the same views you could see if
you opened the shutters. It did not feel as if any-
one had been here for some time.

“Are you hungry?” Rykov asked.
I shook my head. “No. I’m OK.”
“There are some tins in the cupboard if you

want.”

I was hungry. But I was tired too. In fact, I was
exhausted as all the suffering of the last three
years suddenly drained out of me. It had ended so
quickly. I still couldn’t quite accept it. “What
happens now?” I asked.

Rykov pointed at a door which I hadn’t no-
ticed, next to the fridge. “There’s only one bed-
room here,” he said. “You can sleep on the
couch. I have to go out but I’ll be back later.
Don’t try to leave here. Do you understand me?
You’re to stay in this room. And don’t use the
telephone either. If you do, I’ll know.”

“I don’t have anyone to call,” I said. “And

I don’t have anywhere to go.”

352/621

He nodded. “Good. I’ll get you some blankets
before I leave. Help yourself to anything you
need.”

A short while later, he left. I drank some water,
then made up a bed on the couch and lay down
without getting undressed. I was asleep instantly.
It was the first time I had slept outside my small
wooden cabin in three years.

I didn’t hear Rykov come back but I was
woken up by him the following morning as he
folded back the shutters and let in the sun. He
had changed once again and it took me a few mo-
ments to remember who he was. He was wearing

353/621

a suit and sunglasses. There was a gold chain
around his neck. He looked slim and very fit, ten
years younger than the mechanic who had come
to mend the Bell JetRanger.

“It’s nine o’clock,” he said. “I can’t believe
Sharkovsky let you sleep this long. Is that when
you started work?”

“No,” I replied. At the dacha, I’d woken at six

every morning.

“You can use my shower. I’ve left you a fresh
shirt. I think it’s your size. Don’t take too long. I
want to get some breakfast.”

Ten minutes later, I was washed and dried,
wearing a pale blue T-shirt that fitted me well.
Rykov took me out and for the first time I saw
Venice in the light of an autumn day.

There is simply nowhere in the world like it.
Even today, when I am not working, this is some-
where I will come to unwind. I love to sit outside
while the sun sets, watching the seagulls circling
and the traffic crossing back and forth across the
lagoon … the water taxis, the water ambulances,

354/621

the vaporettos and, of
the classic speedboats,
course,
the gondolas.
I can walk for hours
through the streets and alleyways that seem to
play cat and mouse with the canals, suddenly
bringing you to a church, a fountain, a statue, a
tiny humpback bridge … or perhaps depositing
you in a great square with bands playing, waiters
circling and tourists all around. Every corner has
another surprise. Every street is a work of art. I
am glad I have never killed anyone there.

Rykov took me to a café around the corner
from his flat, an old-fashioned place with a tiled
floor, a long counter and a giant-sized coffee ma-
chine that blew out clouds of steam. We sat to-
gether at a little antique table and he ordered cap-
puccinos, orange juice and tramezzini – little
sandwiches, made out of soft bread with smoked
ham and cheese. I hadn’t eaten for about twenty
hours and this was my first taste of Italian food. I
wolfed them down and didn’t complain when he
ordered a second plate. There was a canal

running past outside and I was fascinated to see
the different boats passing so close to the
window.

355/621

“So your name is Yassen Gregorovich,” he
said. He had been speaking in English ever since
we had arrived in Venice. Perhaps he was testing
me – although it was more likely that he had de-
cided to leave the Russian language behind …
along with the rest of the character he had been.
“How old are you?”

I thought for a moment. “Eighteen,” I said.
“Sharkovsky kidnapped you in Moscow. He
kept you his prisoner for three years. You were
his food taster. Is that true?”

“Yes.”
“You’re lucky. We tried to poison him once
and we were considering a second attempt. Your
parents are dead?”

“Yes.”
“Arkady Zelin told me about you in the heli-
copter. And about Sharkovsky. I don’t know why

356/621

you put up with it so long. Why didn’t you just
put a knife into the bastard?”

“Because I wanted to live,” I said. “Karl or

Josef would have killed me if I’d tried.”

“You were prepared to spend the rest of your

life working for him?”

“I did what I had to to survive. Now he’s dead

and I’m here.”

“That’s true.”
Rykov took out a cigarette and lit it. He did not
offer me one but nor did I want it. This was the
one good thing that had come out of my time at
the dacha. I had not been allowed to have cigar-
ettes and so I had been forced to give up
smoking. I have never smoked since.

“Who are you?” I asked. “And who are

Scorpia? Did they pay you to kill Sharkovsky?”

“I’ll give you a piece of advice, Yassen. Don’t
ask questions and never mention that name again.
Certainly not in public.”

“I’d like to know why I’m here. It would have
been easier for you to kill me when we were in
Boltino.”

“Don’t think I wasn’t tempted. As it is, it may
be that I’ve made a bad mistake. We’ll see.” He
drew on the cigarette. “The only reason I didn’t
kill you is because I owed you. It was stupid of
me not to see the second bodyguard. I don’t usu-
ally make mistakes and I’d be dead if it wasn’t
for you. But before you get any fancy ideas,
we’re quits. The debt is cancelled. From now on,
you’re nothing to me. You’re not going to work
for me. And I don’t really care whatever happens
to you.”

“So why am I here?”
“Because the people I work for want to see

357/621

you. We’re going there now.”

“There?”
“The Widow’s Palace. We’ll get a boat.”
From the name, I expected somewhere sombre,
an old, dark building with black curtains drawn
across the windows. But in fact the Widow’s

358/621

Palace was an astonishing place, like something
out of the story books I had read as a child,
built out of pink and white bricks with dozens of
windows glittering in the sun. There was a
covered walkway on the level of the first floor,
stretching from one end to the other, held up by
slender pillars with archways below. And the
palace wasn’t standing beside the canal. It was
actually sinking into it. The water was lapping at
the front door with the white marble steps disap-
pearing below the murky surface.

We pulled in and stepped off the boat. There
was a man standing at the entrance with thick
shoulders and folded arms, wearing a white shirt
and a black suit. He examined us briefly, then
nodded for us to continue forward. Already I was
regretting this. As I passed from the sunlight to
the shadows of the interior, I was thinking of
what Zelin had said as he left the helicopter. You
don’t know these people. They will kill you.
Maybe three long years of taking orders from

Vladimir Sharkovsky had clouded my judgement.
I was no longer used to making decisions.

It would have been better if I had run away be-
fore breakfast. I could have sneaked on a train to
another city. I could have gone to the police for
help. I remembered something my grandmother
used to say when she was cooking: out of the
latki, into the fire.

A massive spiral staircase – white marble with
wrought-iron banisters – rose up, twisting over it-
self. Rykov went first and I followed a few steps
behind, neither of us speaking. I was nervous but
he was completely at ease, one hand in his
trouser pocket, taking his time. We came to a
corridor lined with paintings: portraits of men
and women who must have died centuries before.
They stood in their gold frames, watching us
pass. We walked down to a pair of doors and be-
fore he opened them, Rykov turned and spoke
briefly, quietly.

359/621

“Say nothing until you are spoken to. Tell the

truth. She will know if you’re lying.”

She? The widow?
He knocked and without waiting for an answer

opened the doors and went through.

360/621

The woman who was waiting for us was surely
too young to have married and lost a husband.
She couldn’t have been more than twenty-six or
twenty-seven and my first thought was that she
was very beautiful. My second was that she was
dangerous. She was quite short, with long, black
hair, tied back. It contrasted with the paleness of
her skin. She wore no make-up apart from a
smear of crimson lipstick that was so bright it
was almost cruel. She was dressed in a black silk
shirt, open at the neck. A simple gold necklace
twisted around her neck. She could have been a
model or an actress but there was something that
danced in her eyes and told me she was neither.

She was sitting behind a very elegant, ornate
table with a line of windows behind her, looking
out over the Grand Canal. Two chairs had been
placed in front of her and we took our places
without waiting to be told. She had not been

doing anything when we came in. It was clear
that she had simply been waiting for us.

361/621

“Mr Grant,” she said, and it took me a moment
to realize she was talking to Rykov. “How did it
go?” Her voice was very young. She spoke Eng-
lish with a strange accent which I couldn’t place.
“There was no problem, Mrs Rothman,”

Rykov – or Grant – replied.
“You killed Sharkovsky?”
“Three bullets. I got into the compound, thanks
to the helicopter pilot. He flew me out again.
Everything went according to plan.”

“Not quite.” She smiled and her eyes were
bright but I knew something bad was coming and
I was right. Slowly she turned to face me as if no-
ticing me for the first time. Her eyes lingered on
me. I couldn’t tell what was in her mind. “I do
not remember asking you to bring me a Russian
boy.”

Grant shrugged. “He helped me and I brought
him here because it seemed the easiest thing to
do. It occurred to me that he might be useful

to you … and to Scorpia. He has no background,
no family, no identity. He’s shown himself to
have a certain amount of courage. But if you
don’t need him, I’ll get rid of him for you. And
of course there’ll be no extra charge.”

I had been struggling to follow all this. My
teacher, Nigel Brown, had done a good job –
my English was very advanced. But still, it was
the first time I had heard it spoken by other
people, and there were one or two words I didn’t
understand. But nor did I need to. I fully under-
stood the offer that Grant had just made and
knew that once again my life was in the balance.
The worst of it was that there was nothing I could
do. I had nothing to say. I’d never be able to fight
my way out of this house. I could only sit there
and see what this woman decided.

362/621

She took her time. I felt her examining me and
tried not to show how afraid I was. “That’s very
generous of you, Mr Grant,” she said, at last.
“But what gives you the idea that I can’t deal
with this myself?”

I hadn’t seen her lower her hand beneath the
surface of the table but when she raised it, she
was holding a gun, a silver revolver that had been
polished until it shone. She held it almost like a
fashion accessory, a perfectly manicured finger
curling around the trigger. It was pointing at me
and I could see that she was deadly serious. She
intended to use it.

I tried to speak. No words came out.
“It’s rather a shame,” Mrs Rothman went on.
“I don’t enjoy killing, but you know how it is.
Scorpia will not accept a second-rate job.” Her
hand hadn’t moved but her eyes slid back to
Grant. “Sharkovsky isn’t dead.”
“What?” Grant was shocked.
Mrs Rothman moved her arm so that the gun
was facing him. She pulled the trigger. Grant was
killed instantly, propelled backwards in his chair,
crashing onto the floor.

363/621

I stared. The noise of

the explosion was
ringing in my ears. She swung the gun back to
me.

“What do you have to say for yourself?” she

364/621

“Sharkovsky’s dead!” I gasped. It was all I

asked.

could think to say. “He was shot three times.”

“That may well be true. Unfortunately, our in-
telligence is that he survived. He’s in hospital in
Moscow. He’s critical. But the doctors say he’ll
pull through.”

I didn’t know how to react to this information.
It seemed impossible. The shots had been fired at
close range. I had seen him thrown off his feet.
And yet I had always said he was the devil. Per-
haps it would take more than bullets to end his
life.

The gun was still pointing at me. I waited for
Mrs Rothman to fire again. But suddenly she
smiled as if nothing had happened, put the gun
down and stood up.

“Would you like a glass of Coke?” she asked.
“I’m sorry?”
“Please don’t ask me to repeat myself, Yassen.
I find it very boring. We can’t sit and talk here,

with a dead body in the room. It isn’t dignified.
Let’s go next door.”

She slid out from behind the desk and I fol-
lowed her through a door that I hadn’t noticed
before – it was part of a bookshelf covered with
fake books so as not to spoil the pattern. There
was a much larger living room behind the door
with two plump sofas on either side of a glass
table and a massive stone fireplace, though no
fire. Fresh flowers had been arranged in a vase
and the scent of them hung in the air. Drinks –
Coke for me, iced tea for her – had already been
served.

We sat down.
“Were you shocked by that, Yassen?” she

365/621

asked.

I shook my head, not quite daring to speak yet.
“It was very unpleasant but I’m afraid you
can’t allow anyone too many chances in our line
of work. It sends out the wrong message. This
wasn’t the first time Mr Grant had made mis-
takes. Even bringing you here and not disposing

of you when you were in Boltino frankly made
me question his judgement. But never mind that
now. Here you are and I want to talk about you. I
know a little about you but I’d like to hear the
rest. Your parents are dead, I understand.”

“Yes.”
“Tell me how it happened. Tell me all of it.
See if you can keep it brief, though. I’m only in-
terested in the bare essentials. I have a long
day…”

366/621

So I told her everything. Right then, I couldn’t
think of any reason not to. Estrov, the factory,
Moscow, Dima, Demetyev, Sharkovsky … even
I was surprised how my whole life could boil
down to so few words. She listened with what I
can only describe as polite interest. You would
have thought that some of the things that had
happened to me would have caused an expression
of concern or sympathy. She really didn’t care.

“It’s an interesting story,” she said, when I had
finished. “And you told it very well.” She sipped
her tea. I noticed that her lipstick left bright red

marks on the glass. “The strange thing is that the
late Mr Grant was quite right. You could be very
useful to us.”

“Who are you?” I asked. Then I added,

367/621

“Scorpia…”

“Ah yes. Scorpia. I’m not entirely sure about
the name if you want the truth. The letters stand
for Sabotage, Corruption, Intelligence and Assas-
sination, but that’s only a few of the things we
get up to. They could have added kidnapping,
blackmail, terrorism, drug trafficking and vice,
but that wouldn’t make a word. Anyway, we’ve
got to be called something and I suppose Scorpia
has a nice ring to it.

“I’m on the executive board. Right now there
are twelve of us. Please don’t get the idea that
we’re monsters. We’re not even criminals. In
fact, quite a few of us used to work in the intelli-
gence services … England, France, Israel, Japan
… but it’s a fast-changing world and we realized
that we could do much better if we went into
business for ourselves. You’d be amazed how

368/621

many governments need to subcontract their dirty
work. Think about it. Why risk your own people,
spying on your enemies, when you can simply
pay us to do it for you? Why start a war when
you can pick up the phone and get someone to
kill the head of state? It’s cheaper. Fewer people
get hurt. In a way, Scorpia has been quite helpful
when it comes to world peace. We still work for
virtually all
the intelligence services and that
must tell you something about us. A lot of the
time we’re doing exactly the same jobs that we
were doing before. Just at a higher price.”

“You were a spy?” I asked.
“Actually, Yassen, I wasn’t. I’m from Wales.
Do you know where that is? Believe it or not, I
was brought up in a tiny mining community. My
parents used to sing in the local choir. They’re in
jail now and I was in an orphanage when I was
six years old. My life has been quite similar to
yours in some ways. But as you can see, I’ve
been rather more successful.”

It was warm in the room. The sun was stream-
ing in through the windows, dazzling me. I
waited for her to continue.

369/621

“I’ll get straight

to the point,” she said.
“There’s something quite special about you,
Yassen, even if you probably don’t appreciate
yourself. Do you see what I’m getting at? You’re
a survivor, yes. But you’re more than that. In
your own way, you’re unique!

“You see, pretty much everyone in the world is
on a databank somewhere. The moment you’re
born, your details get put into a computer, and
computers are getting more and more powerful
by the day. Right now I could pick up the tele-
phone and in half an hour I would know anything
and everything about anyone you care to name.
And it’s not just names and that sort of thing.
You break into a house and leave a fingerprint or
one tiny little piece of DNA and the international
police will track you down, no matter where in
the world you are. A crime committed in Rio de
Janeiro can be solved overnight at Scotland Yard

– and, believe me, as the technology changes, it’s
going to get much, much worse.

“But you’re different. The Russian authorities
have done you a great favour. They’ve wiped you
out. The village you were brought up in no longer
exists. You have no parents. I would imagine that
every last piece of information about you and
anyone you ever knew in Estrov has been des-
troyed. And do you know what that’s done? It’s
made you a non-person. From this moment on,
you can be completely invisible. You can go any-
where and do anything and nobody will be able
to find you.”

370/621

She reached for her glass, turning it between
her finger and her thumb. Her nails were long
and sharp. She didn’t drink.

“We are always on the lookout for assassins,”
she said. “Contract killers like Mr Grant. As you
have seen, the price of failure in our organization
is a high one, but so are the rewards of success.
It is a very attractive life. You travel the world.
You stay in the best hotels, eat
in the best

restaurants, shop in Paris and New York. You
meet interesting people … and some of them you
kill.”

I must have looked alarmed because she raised

371/621

a hand, stopping me.

“Let me finish. You were brought up by your
parents who, I am sure, were good people. So
were mine! You are thinking that you could nev-
er murder someone for money. You could never
be like Mr Grant. But you’re wrong. We will
train you. We have a facility not very far from
here, an island called Malagosto. We run a school
there … a very special school. If you go there,
you will work harder than you have ever worked
in your life – even harder than in that dacha
where you were kept.

“You will be given training in weapons and
martial arts. You will learn the techniques of
poisoning, shooting, explosives and hand-to-hand
combat. We will show you how to pick locks,
how to disguise yourself, how to talk your way in
and out of any given situation. We will teach you

372/621

not only how to act like a killer but how to think
like one. Every week there will be psychological
and physical evaluations. There will also be
formal schooling. You need to have maths and
science. Your English is excellent but you still
speak with a Russian accent. You must lose it.
You should also learn Arabic, as we have many
operations in the Middle East.

“I can promise you that you will be more ex-
hausted than you would have thought possible
but, if you last the course, you will be perfect.
The perfect killer. And you will work for us.

“The alternative? You can leave here now. Be-
lieve it or not, I really mean it. I won’t stop you.
I’ll even give you the money for the train fare if
you like. You have nothing. You have nowhere
to go. If you tell the police about me, they won’t
believe you. My guess is that you will end up
back in Russia. Sharkovsky will be looking for
you. Without our help, he will find you.

“So there you have it, Yassen. That’s what it

comes down to.”

She smiled and finished her drink.
“What do you say?”

373/621

ОСТРОВ

THE ISLAND

They taught me how to kill.

In fact, during the time that I spent on the is-
land of Malagosto, they taught me a great deal
more than that. There was no school in the world
that was anything like the Training and Assess-
ment Centre that Scorpia had created. How do I
begin to describe all the differences? It was, of
course, highly secret. Nobody chose to go there
… they chose you. It was surely the only school
in the world where there were more teachers than
students. There were no holidays, no sports days,
no uniforms, no punishments, no visitors, no
prizes and no exams. And yet it was, in its own
way, a school. You could call it the Eton of
murder.

376/621

What was strange about Malagosto was how
close it was to mainland Venice. Here was this
city full of rich tourists drifting between jazz bars
and restaurants, five-star hotels and gorgeous
palazzos – and less than half a mile away, across
a strip of dark water, there were activities going
on that would have made their hair stand on end.
The island had been a plague centre once. There
was an old Venetian saying: “Sneeze in Venice
and wipe your nose in Malagosto” – the last thing
you could afford in a tightly packed medieval
city, with its sweating crowds and stinking
canals, was an outbreak of the plague. The rich
merchants had built a monastery, a hospital, liv-
ing quarters and a cemetery for the infected.
They would house them, look after them, pray for
them and bury them. But they would never have
them back.

The island was small. I could walk around it in
forty minutes. Even in the summer, the sand was
a dirty yellow, covered with shingle, and the wa-
ter was an unappealing grey. All the woodland

377/621

was tangled together as if it had been hit by a vi-
olent storm. There was a clearing in the middle
with a few gravestones, the names worn away by
time, leaning together as if whispering the secrets
of the past. The monastery had a bell tower made
out of dark red bricks and it slanted at a strange
angle … it looked sure to collapse at any mo-
ment. The whole building looked dilapidated,
half the windows broken, the courtyards pitted
with cracks, weeds everywhere.

But

the actual

truth was quite surprising.
Scorpia hadn’t just watched the place fall into
disrepair, they had helped it on its way. They had
removed anything that
looked too attractive:
fountains, statues, frescoes, stained-glass win-
dows, ornamental doors. They had even gone so
far as to insert a hydraulic arm into the tower, de-
liberately tilting it. The whole point was that
Malagosto was not meant to be beautiful. It was
off-limits anyway, but they didn’t want a single
tourist or archaeologist to feel it was worth hiring
a boat and risking the crossing. The last time

378/621

anyone had tried had been six years before, when
a group of nuns had taken a ferry from Murano,
following in the footsteps of some minor saint.
They had still been singing when the ferry had
inexplicably blown up. The cause was never
found.

Inside, the buildings were much more modern
and comfortable
than anyone might have
guessed. We had two classrooms, warm and
soundproof with brand new furniture and banks
of audio visual equipment that would have had
my old teachers in Rosna staring in envy. All
they’d had was chalk and blackboards. There
were both indoor and outdoor shooting ranges, a
superbly equipped gymnasium with an area de-
voted exclusively to fighting – judo, karate, kick-
boxing and, above all, ninjutsu – and a swimming
pool, although most of the time we used the sea.
If the temperature was close to freezing, that only
made the training more worthwhile. My own
rooms, on the second floor of the accommodation
block, were very comfortable. I had a bedroom, a

379/621

living room and even my own bathroom with a
huge marble bath that took only seconds to fill,
the steaming hot water jetting out of a monster
brass tap shaped like a lion’s head. I had my own
desk, my own TV, a private fridge that was al-
ways kept stocked up with bottled water and soft
drinks. All this came at a price. Once I left the fa-
cility, I would be tied by a five-year contract
working exclusively for Scorpia and the cost of
my training would be taken from my salary. This
was made clear to me from the start.

After I had met Mrs Rothman and accepted her
offer, I was taken straight to the island in the
back of a water ambulance. It seemed an odd
choice of vessel but of course it would have been
completely inconspicuous in the middle of all the
other traffic and I did not travel alone. Mr Grant
came with me, laid out on a stretcher. I have to
say that I felt sorry for him. In his own way he
had been kind to me. I turned my thoughts to
Vladimir Sharkovsky, probably lying in a Mo-
scow hospital, surrounded by fresh bodyguards

380/621

watching over him just as the machines would be
watching over his heart rate, his blood pressure –
all his vital signs. Who would be tasting his food
for him now?

It was midday when I arrived.
The water ambulance pulled up to a jetty that
was much less dilapidated than it looked and I
saw a young woman waiting for me. In fact, from
a distance, I had mistaken her for a man. Her
dark hair was cut short and she was wearing a
loose white shirt, a waistcoat and jeans. But as
we drew closer I saw that she was quite attract-
ive, about two or three years older than me, and
serious-looking. She wore no make-up. She
reached out and gave me a hand off the boat and
suddenly we were standing together, weighing
each other up.

“I’m Colette,” she said.
“I’m Yassen.”
“Welcome to Malagosto. Do you have any

luggage?”

I shook my head. I had brought nothing with
me. Apart from what I was wearing, I had no
possessions in the world.

“I’ve been asked to show you around. Mr Nye

will want to see you later on.”

“Mr Nye?”
“You could say he’s the principal. He runs this

381/621

place.”

“Are you a teacher?”
She smiled. “No. I’m a student. The same as
you. Come on – I’ll start by showing you your
rooms.”

I spent the next two hours with Colette. There
were only three students there at
the time. I
would be the fourth. The others were on the
mainland, involved in some sort of exercise. As
we stood on the beach, looking out across the wa-
ter, Colette told me a little about them.

“There’s Marat. He’s from Poland. And Sam.
He only got here a few weeks ago … from Israel.
Neither of them talks very much but Sam came
out of the army. He was going to join Mossad –

Israeli intelligence – but Scorpia made him a bet-
ter offer.”

“What about you?” I asked. “Where have you

382/621

come from?”

“I’m French.”
We had been speaking in English but I had
been aware she had a slight accent. I waited for
her to tell me more but she was silent. “Is that
all?” I asked.

“What else is there?” You and me … we’re

here. That’s all that matters.”
“How did you get chosen?”
“I didn’t get chosen.

I volunteered.” She
thought for a moment. “I wouldn’t ask personal
questions, if I were you. People can be a bit
touchy around here.”

“I just thought it was strange, that’s all. A wo-

man learning how to kill…”

She raised an eyebrow at that. “You are old-
fashioned, aren’t you, Yassen! And here’s anoth-
er piece of advice. Maybe you should keep your
opinions to yourself.” She looked at her watch,

383/621

I

at

then drew a thin book out of her back pocket.
“Now I’m afraid I’m going to have to leave you
on your own. I’ve got to finish this.”

glanced

cover: MODERN
INTERROGATION TECHNIQUES BY DR
THREE.

the

“You might get to meet him one day,” Colette
said. “And if you do, be careful what you say.
You wouldn’t want to end up as a chapter in his
book.”

I spent the rest of the day alone in my room,
lying on my bed with all sorts of thoughts going
through my head. Much later on, at about eight
o’clock in the evening, I was summoned to the
headmaster’s office and it was there that I met
the man who was in charge of all the training on
Malagosto.

His name was Sefton Nye and my first thought
was that he had the darkest skin I had ever seen.
His glistening bald head showed off eyes that
were extraordinarily large and animated. And he
had brilliant white teeth, which he displayed

384/621

often in an astonishing smile. He dressed very
carefully – he liked well-cut blazers, obviously
expensive – and his shoes were polished to per-
fection. He was originally from Somalia. His
family were modern-day pirates, holding up lux-
ury yachts, cruise ships and even, on one occa-
sion, an oil tanker that had strayed too close to
the shore. They were utterly ruthless… I saw
framed newspaper articles in the office describ-
ing their exploits. Nye himself had a very loud
voice. Everything about him was larger than life.
“Yassen Gregorovich!” he exclaimed, pointing
me to a chair in the office, which was almost cir-
cular with an iron chandelier in the middle. There
were floor to ceiling bookshelves, two windows
looking out over woodland, and half a dozen
clocks, each one showing a different time. A pair
of solid iron filing cabinets stood against one
wall. Mr Nye wore the key that opened them
around his neck. “Welcome to Malagosto,” he
went on. “Welcome indeed. I always take the
greatest pleasure in meeting the new recruits

385/621

because, you see, when you leave here you will
not be the same. We are going to turn you into
something very special and when I meet you after
that, it may well be that I do not want to. You
will be dangerous. I will be afraid of you. Every-
one who meets you, even without knowing why,
will be afraid of you. I hope that thought does not
distress you, Yassen, because if it does you
should not be here. You are going to become a
contract killer and although you will be rich and
you will be comfortable, I am telling you now, it
is a very lonely path.”

There was a knock at the door and a second
man appeared, barely half the height of the head-
master, dressed in a linen suit and brown shoes,
with a round face and a small beard. He seemed
quite nervous of Mr Nye, his eyes blinking be-
hind his tortoise-shell glasses. “You wanted to
see me, headmaster?” he enquired. He had a
French accent, much more distinct than Colette’s.
“Ah yes, Oliver!” He gestured in my direction.
“This is our newest recruit. His name is Yassen

386/621

Gregorovich. Mrs Rothman sent him over from
the Widow’s Palace.”

“Delighted.” The little man nodded at me.
“This is Oliver d’Arc. He will be your personal
tutor and he will also be taking many of your
classes. If you’re unhappy, if you have any prob-
lems, you go to him.”

I would spend a lot of time with Oliver d’Arc
while I was on Malagosto but I never completely
trusted him. I don’t
think I ever knew him.
Everything about him – his appearance, the way
he spoke, probably even his name – was an act
put on for the students’ benefit. Later on, after
Nye was killed by one of his own students, d’Arc

“Thank you,” I said, but I had already decided
that if I had any problems I would most certainly
keep them to myself. This was the sort of place
where any weakness would only be used against
you.

“I am here for you any time you need me,”

d’Arc assured me.

became the headmaster and, by all accounts, he
was very good at the job.

“Do you have any questions, Yassen?” Mr Nye

387/621

asked.

“No, sir,” I said.
“That’s good. But before you turn in for the
night, there’s something I want you to do for me,
I hope you don’t mind. It shouldn’t take more
than a couple of hours.”

That was when I noticed that Oliver d’Arc was

holding a spade.

My first job on Malagosto was to bury Mr
Grant in the little cemetery in the woods. It was a
final resting place that he would share with
plague victims who had died four hundred years
before him, although I had no doubt that there
were other more recent arrivals too, men and wo-
men who had failed Scorpia just like him. It was
an unpleasant, grisly task, digging on my own in
the darkness. Even Sharkovsky had never asked
me to do such a thing – but it’s possible that it
was meant to be a warning to me. Mrs Rothman

388/621

had let me live. She had even recruited me. But
this is what I could look forward to if I let her
down.

As I dragged Mr Grant off the stretcher and
tipped him into the hole which I had dug,
I couldn’t help but wonder if someone would do
the same for me one day. For what it’s worth, it
is the only time I have ever had such thoughts.
When your business is death, the only death you
should never consider is your own. It had begun
to rain slightly, a thin drizzle that only made my
task more unpleasant.
filled in the grave,
flattened it with the spade,
then carried the
stretcher back to the main complex. Oliver d’Arc
was waiting for me with a brandy and a hot
chocolate. He escorted me to my room and even
insisted on running a bath for me, adding a good
measure of “Floris of London” bath oil to the
foaming water. I was glad when he finally left. I
was afraid he was going to offer to scrub my
back.

I

Five months…

389/621

No two days were ever exactly the same, al-
though we were always woken at half past five in
the morning for a one-hour run around the island
followed by a forty-minute swim – out to a stump
of rock and back again. Breakfast was at half past
seven, served in a beautiful dining room with a
sixteenth-century mosaic on the floor, wooden
angels carved around the windows and a faded
view of heaven painted on the domed ceiling
above our heads. The food was always excellent.
All four students ate together and I usually found
myself sitting next to Colette. As she had warned
me, Marat and Sam weren’t exactly unfriendly
but they hardly ever spoke to me. Sam was dark
and very intense. Marat seemed more laid-back,
sitting in class with his legs crossed and his
hands behind his back. After they had graduated,
they decided to work together as a team and were
extremely successful but I never saw them again.
Morning lessons took place in the classrooms.
We learned about guns and knives, how to create
a booby trap, and how to make a bomb using

390/621

seven different ingredients that you could find in
any supermarket. There was one teacher – he was
red-headed, scrawny and had tattoos all over his
upper body – who brought in a different weapon
for us to practice with every day: not just guns
but knives, swords, throwing spikes, ninja fight-
ing fans and even a medieval crossbow … he ac-
tually insisted on firing an apple off Marat’s
head. His name was Gordon Ross and he came
from a city called Glasgow, in Scotland. He had
briefly been assistant to the Chief Armourer at
MI6 until Scorpia had tempted him away at five
times his original salary.

The first time we met, I impressed him by
stripping down an AK-47 machine gun in eight-
een seconds. My old friend Leo, of course, would
have done it faster. Ross was actually a knife
man. His
two great heroes were William
Fairbairn and Eric Sykes, who together had cre-
ated the ultimate fighting knife for British com-
mandos during the Second World War. Ross was
an expert with throwing knives and he’d had a set

391/621

specially designed and weighted for his hand. Put
him twenty metres from a target and there wasn’t
a student on the island who could beat him for
speed or accuracy, even when he was competing
against guns.

Ross also had a fascination with gadgets. He
didn’t manufacture any himself but he had made
a study of the secret weaponry provided by all
the different
intelligence services and he had
managed to steal several items, which he brought
in for us to examine. There was a credit card de-
veloped by the CIA. One edge was razor-sharp.
The French had come up with a string of onions
… several of them were grenades. His own em-
ployers, MI6, had provided an antiseptic cream
that could eat through metals, a fountain pen that
fired a poisoned nib, and a Power Plus battery
that concealed a radio transmitter. You simply
gave the whole thing a half-twist and it would set
off a beacon to summon immediate help. All
these devices amused him but at the end of the

392/621

day he dismissed them as toys. He preferred his
knives.

Weapons and self-defence were only part of
my training. I was surprised to find myself going
back to school
in the old-fashioned sense; I
learned maths, English, Arabic, science – even
classical music, art and cookery. Oliver d’Arc
took some of these classes. However, I will not
forget the day I was introduced to the unsmiling
Italian woman who never told anyone her name
but called herself the Countess. It may well be
that she was a true aristocrat. She certainly be-
haved like one, insisting that we stand when she
entered and always address her as “ma’am”. She
was about fifty, exquisitely dressed, with expens-
ive jewellery and perfect manners. When she
stood up, she expected us to do so too. The
Countess took us shopping and to art galleries in
Venice. She made us read newspapers and
celebrity magazines and often talked about the
people in the photographs. At first, I had abso-
lutely no idea what she was doing on the island.

393/621

It was only later that I understood. A killer is
not
just someone who lies on a roof with a
12.7mm sniper rifle, waiting for his prey to walk
out of a restaurant. Sometimes it is necessary to
be inside that restaurant. To pin down your tar-
get, you have to get close to him. You have to
wear the right clothes, walk in the right way, de-
mand a good table in a restaurant, understand the
food and the wine. How could a boy from a poor
Russian village have been able to do any of these
things if he had not been taught? I have been to
art auctions, to operas, to fashion shows and to
horse races.
I have sipped champagne with
bankers, professors, designers and multimillion-
aires. I have always felt comfortable and nobody
has ever thought I was out of place. For this,
I have the Countess to thank.

The toughest part of the day came after lunch.
The afternoons were devoted to hand-to-hand
combat and three-hour classes were taken either
by the headmaster, Mr Nye, or a Japanese in-
structor, Hatsumi Saburo. We all called him HS

394/621

and he was an extraordinary man. He must have
been seventy years old but he moved faster than a
teenager, certainly faster than me. If you weren’t
concentrating, he would knock you down so hard
and so fast that you simply wouldn’t be aware of
what had happened until you were on the floor,
and he would be standing above you, gazing at
the ceiling, as if it had been nothing to do with
him. Sefton Nye taught judo and karate but it was
Hatsumi Saburo who introduced me to a third
martial art, ninjutsu, and it is this that has always
stayed with me.

Ninjutsu was the fighting method developed
by the ninjas, the spies and the assassins who
roamed across Japan in the fifteenth century. It
was taught to them by the priests and the warriors
who were in hiding in the mountains. What I
learned from HS over the next five months was
what I can only describe as a total fighting sys-
tem that encompassed every part of my body in-
cluding my feet, my knees, my elbows, my fists,
my head, even my teeth. And it was more than

395/621

that. He used to talk about nagare, the flow of
technique … knowing when to move from one
form of attack to the next. Ultimately, everything
came down to mental attitude. “You cannot win
if you do not believe you will win,” he once said
to me. He had a very heavy Japanese accent and
barked like a dog. “You must control your emo-
tions. You must control your feelings. If there is
any fear or insecurity, you must destroy it before
it destroys you. It is not the size or the strength of
your opponent that matters. These can be meas-
ured. It is what cannot be measured … courage,
determination … that count.”

I felt great reverence for Hatsumi Saburo but
I did not like him. Sometimes we would fight
each other with wooden swords that were known
as bokken. He never held back. When I went to
bed, my whole body would be black and blue,
while I would never so much as touch him. “You
have too many emotions, Yas-sen!” he would
crow, as he stood over me. “All that sadness. All
that anger. It is the smoke that gets into your

396/621

eyes. If you do not blow it away how can you
hope to see?”

Was I sad about what had happened to me?
Was I angry? I suppose Scorpia would know bet-
ter than me because, just as Mrs Rothman had
promised, I was given regular psychological ex-
aminations by a doctor called Karl Steiner who
came from South Africa. I disliked him from the
start; the way he looked at me, his eyes always
boring into mine as
if he suspected that
everything I said was a lie. I don’t think I ever
heard Dr Steiner say anything that wasn’t a ques-
tion. He was a very neat man, always dressed in a
suit with a carnation in his lapel. He would sit
there with one leg crossed over the other, occa-
sionally glancing at a gold pocket watch to check
the time. His office was completely bare … just a
white space with two armchairs. It had a window
that looked out over the firing range and I would
sometimes hear the crack of the rifles outside as
he fired his own questions my way.

I regretted now that I had told Mrs Rothman so
much about myself. She had passed all the in-
formation to him and he wanted me to talk about
my parents, my grandmother, my childhood in
Estrov. The more we talked, the less I wanted to
say. I felt empty, as if the life I was describing
was something that no longer belonged to me.
And the strange thing is, I think that was exactly
what he wanted. In his own way he was just like
Hatsumi Saburo. My old life was smoke. It had
to be blown away.

We were given a couple of hours of rest before
dinner but we were always expected to use the
time productively. My tutor, Oliver d’Arc, in-
sisted that I read books … and in English, not
Russian. Some evenings we had political discus-
sions. I learned more about my own country
while I was on the island than I had the whole
time I was living there.

397/621

We also had guest

lecturers. They were
brought to Malagosto in blindfolds and many of
them had been in prison but they were all experts

398/621

in their own field. One was a pickpocket … he
shook hands with each one of us before he began
and then started his lecture by returning our
watches. Another showed us how to pick locks.
There was one really brilliant lecture by an eld-
erly Hungarian man with terrible scars down the
side of his face. He had lost his sight in a car ac-
cident. He talked to us for two hours about dis-
guise and false identities, and then revealed that
he was actually a thirty-two-year-old Belgian wo-
man and that she could see as well as any of us.

You never knew what was going to happen.
The school loved to throw surprises our way. So-
metimes, in the middle of the night, a whistle
would blow and we would find ourselves called
out to the assault course, crawling through the
rain and the mud, climbing nets and swinging on
ropes while Mr Ross fired live ammunition at our
heels. Once, we were told to swim to the main-
land, to steal clothes and money when we got
there and then to make our own way back.

399/621

But Scorpia did not want us to become too cut
off, too removed from the real world. As well as
the expeditions with the Countess,
they often
gave us half a day off to visit Venice. Marat and
Sam kept themselves to themselves so I usually
found myself with Colette. We would go to the
markets together and walk the streets. She was
always stopping to take photographs. She loved
little details … an iron door handle, a gargoyle, a
cat asleep on a windowsill. I had never been out
with a girl before – I had never really had the
chance – and I found myself being drawn to her
in a way I could not completely understand. All
the time, I was being taught to hide my feelings.
When I was with her, I wanted to do the opposite.
She never told me much more about herself
than she had that first time we had met and I was
sensible enough not to ask. She let slip that she
had once lived in Paris,
that her father was
something to do with the French government and
that she hadn’t spoken to him for years. She had
left home when she was very young and had

400/621

somehow survived on her own since then. She
never explained how she had found out about
Scorpia. But I did learn that her training would be
over very soon. Like all recruits, she was going
to be sent on her first solo kill – a real job with a
real target.

“Do you ever think about it?” I asked her.
We were sitting outside a café on the Riva de-
gli Schiavoni with a great expanse of water in
front of us and hundreds of tourists streaming
past. They gave us privacy.

“What?” she asked.
I lowered my voice. “Killing. Taking another

person’s life.”

She looked at me over the top of her coffee.
She was wearing sunglasses which hid her eyes
but I could tell she was annoyed. “You should
ask Dr Steiner about that.”

I held her gaze. “I’m asking you.”
“Why do you even want

to know?” she
snapped. She stirred the coffee. It was very black,
served in a tiny cup. “It’s a job. There are all

sorts of people who don’t deserve to live. Rich
people. Powerful people. Take one of them out,
maybe you’re doing the world a favour.”

“What if they’re married?”
“Who cares?”
“What if they have children?”
“If you think like that, you shouldn’t be here.
You shouldn’t even be talking like this. If you
were to say any of this to Marat or Sam, they’d
go straight to Mr Nye.”

“I wouldn’t talk to them,” I said. “They’re not

401/621

my friends.”

“And you think I am?”
I still remember that moment. Colette was
leaning towards me and she was wearing a jacket
with a very soft, close-fitting jersey beneath. She
took off her sunglasses and looked at me with
brown eyes that, I’m sure, had more warmth in
them than she intended. Right then, I wished that
we could be just like all the other people strolling
by us; a Russian boy and a French girl who had
just happened to bump into each other in one of

have friends, Yassen. Either of us.”

She finished her coffee, stood up and walked

away.

the most romantic places on the earth. But of
course it couldn’t be. It would never be.

“I’m not your friend,” she said. “We’ll never

402/621

Colette left a few weeks later and after that
there were just the three of us continuing with the
training, day and night.

None of the instructors ever said as much but
I knew I was doing well. I was the fastest across
the assault course. On the shooting range, my tar-
gets always came whirring back with the bullets
grouped neatly inside the head. I had mastered all
sixteen body strikes – the so-called “secret fists”
– that are essential to ninjutsu and during one
memorable training session I even managed to
land a blow on HS. I could see the old man was
pleased … although he flattened me half a second
later. After hours in the gym, I was in peak phys-
ical condition. I could run six times around the is-
land and I wouldn’t be out of breath.

403/621

And yet I couldn’t forget what I had talked
about with Colette. When I fired at a target,
I would always imagine a real human being and
not the cut-out soldier with his fixed, snarling
face in front of me. Instead of the quick snap, the
little round hole that appeared in the paper as the
bullet passed through, there would be the explo-
sion of bone fragmenting, blood splashing out.
The paper soldier’s eyes ignored me. He felt
nothing. But what would a man be thinking as he
died? He would never see his family again. He
would never
the sun.
Everything that he had and everything he was
would have been stolen away by me. Could I
really do that to someone and not hate myself for
ever?

the warmth of

feel

I had not chosen this. There was a time when
I’d thought I was going to work in a factory mak-
ing pesticides. I was going to live in a village that
nobody had ever heard of, dreaming of being a
helicopter pilot, pinning pictures to the wall.
Looking back, it felt as if some evil force had

404/621

been manipulating me every inch of the way to
bring me here. From the moment my parents had
been killed, my own life had no longer been mine
to control. And yet, it occurred to me, it was still
not too late. Scorpia had taught me how to fight,
how to change my identity, how to hide and how
to survive. Once I left Malagosto, I could use
these skills to escape from them. I could steal
money and go anywhere in the world that I
wanted, change my name, begin a new life. Ly-
ing in bed at night, I would think about this but at
the same time I knew, with a sense of despair,
that I was wrong. Scorpia was too powerful. No
matter how far I ran, eventually they would find
me and there was no escaping what the result
would be. I would die young. But wasn’t that bet-
ter than becoming what they wanted? At least I
would have stayed true to myself.

I was terrified of giving any of this away while
with Dr Steiner.
I always thought before I
answered any of his questions and tried to tell
him what he wanted to hear, not what I really

405/621

thought. I was afraid that if he caught sight of my
weakness, my training would be cancelled and
the next recruit would end up burying me in the
woods. The secret was to be completely emotion-
less. Sometimes he showed me horrible pictures
– scenes of war and violence. I tried not to look
at the dead and mutilated bodies, but then he
would ask me questions about them and I would
find myself having to describe everything in de-
tail, trying to keep the quiver out of my voice.
And yet I thought I was getting away with it. At
the end of each session, he would take my hand –
cupping it in both of his own – and purr at me,
“Well done, Yassen. That was very, very good.”
As far as I could tell, he had no idea at all what
was really going on in my head.

And then, at last, the day came when Oliver
d’Arc called me to his study. As I entered, he was
tuning the cello, which was an instrument he
played occasionally. The room was a mess, with
books everywhere and papers spilling out of

406/621

drawers. It smelled of tobacco, although I never
saw him smoke.

“Ah, Yassen!” he exclaimed. “I’m afraid
you’re going to miss evening training. Mrs Roth-
man is back in Venice. You’re to have dinner
with her. Make sure you wear your best clothes.
A launch will pick you up at seven o’clock.”

When I had first come to the island, I might
have asked why she wanted to see me but by now
I knew that I would always be given all the in-
formation I needed, and to ask for more was only
to show weakness.

“It looks like you’re going to be leaving us,”

he went on.

“My training is finished?”
“Yes.”
He plucked one of the strings. “You’ve done
very well, my dear boy,” he said. “And I must
say, I’ve thoroughly enjoyed tutoring you. And
now your moment has come. Good luck!”

407/621

From this, I understood that my final test had
arrived … the solo kill. My training was over.
My life as an assassin was about to begin.

And that night, I met Mrs Rothman for the
second time. She had sent her personal launch to
collect me, a beautiful vessel that was all teak
and chrome with a silver scorpion moulded into
the bow. It carried me beneath the famous Bridge
of Sighs – I hoped that was not an omen – and on
to the Widow’s Palace where we had first met.
She was dressed, once again, in black; this time a
very low-cut dress with a zip down one side,
which I recognized at once as the work of the de-
signer, Gianni Versace. We ate in her private din-
ing room at a long table lit by candles and sur-
rounded by paintings – Picasso, Cézanne, Van
Gogh – all of them worth millions. We began
with soup, then lobster, and finally a creamy cus-
tard mixed with wine that the Italians call za-
baglione. The food was delicious but as I ate I
was aware of her examining me, watching every
mouthful, and I knew that I was still being tested.

“I’m very pleased with you, Yassen,” she said
as the coffee was poured. The whole meal had
been served by two men in white jackets and
black trousers, her personal waiters. “Do you
think you’re ready?”

“Yes, Mrs Rothman,” I replied.
“You can stop calling me that now.” She
smiled at me and I was once again struck by her
film-star looks. “I prefer Julia.”

408/621

There was a file on the table beside her. It
hadn’t been there when we started. One of the
waiters had brought it in with the coffee. She
opened it. First she took out a printed report.

“You’re naturally gifted … an excellent
marksman. Hatsumi Saburo speaks very highly
of your abilities. I see also that you have learned
from the Countess. Your manners are faultless.
Six months ago you wouldn’t have been able to
sit at a table like this without giving yourself
away, but you are very different from the street
urchin I met back then.”

409/621

I nodded but said nothing. Another lesson.
Never show gratitude unless you hope to gain
something from it.

“But now we must see if you can actually put
into practice everything that we have taught you
in theory.” She took out a passport and slid it
across the table. “This is yours,” she said. “We
have kept your family name. There was no reas-
on not to, particularly as your first name had
changed anyway. Yassen Gregorovich is what
you are now and will always be … unless of
course we feel the need for you to travel under
cover.” An envelope followed. “You’ll find the
details of your bank account inside,” she said.
“You are a client of the European Finance Group.
It’s a private bank based in Geneva. There are
fifty thousand American dollars, fifty thousand
euros and fifty thousand pounds in the account,
and no matter how much you spend, these figures
will always remain the same. Of course, we will
be watching your expenses.”

410/621

She was enjoying this, sending me out for the
first time, almost challenging me to show reluct-
ance or any sign of fear. She took out a second
envelope, thicker than the first. This one was
sealed with a strip of black tape. There was a
scorpion symbol stamped in the middle.

“This envelope contains a return air ticket to
New York, which is where your first assignment
will take place. There is another thousand dollars
in here too … petty cash to get you started. You
are flying economy.”

That didn’t surprise me. I was young and I was
entering the United States on my own. Travelling
business or
first class might draw attention
to myself.

“You will be met at the airport and taken to
your hotel. You will report back to me here in
Venice in one week’s time. Do you want to know
who you are going to kill?”

“I’m sure you’ll tell me when you want to,”

I said.

“That’s right.” She smiled. “You’ll get all the
information that you need once you arrive. A
weapon will also be delivered to you. Is that all
understood?”

411/621

“Yes,” I said. Of course I had questions.
Above all I wanted a name and a face some-
where; on the other side of the world, a man was
going about his business with no knowledge that
I was on my way. What had he done to anger
Scorpia? Why did he have to lose his life? But I
stayed silent. I was being very careful not to
show any sign of weakness.

“Then I think our evening is almost over,” Mrs
Rothman said. She reached out and, just for a
moment, her fingers brushed against the back of
my hand. “You know, Yassen,” she said, “you
are incredibly good-looking. I thought that the
moment I saw you and your five months on
Malagosto have done nothing but improve you.”
She sighed and drew her hand away. “Russian
boys aren’t quite my thing,” she continued. “Or
else who knows what we might get up to? But it

will certainly help you in your work. Death
should always come smartly dressed.”

She got up, as if about to leave. But then she
had second thoughts and turned back to me.
“You were fond of that girl, Colette, weren’t
you?”

“We spent a bit of time together,” I said. “We
came into Venice once or twice.” Julia Rothman
would know that, anyway.

“Yes,” she murmured. “I had a feeling the two

412/621

of you would hit it off.”

She was daring me to ask. So I did.
“How is she?”
“She’s dead.” Mrs Rothman brushed some
imaginary dust from the sleeve of her dress. “Her
first assignment went very wrong. It wasn’t en-
tirely her fault. She took out the target but she
was shot by the Argentinian police.”

And that was when I knew what she had done
to me. That was when I knew exactly what
Scorpia had made me.

I felt nothing. I said nothing. If I was sad,
I didn’t show it. I simply watched impassively as
she left the room.

413/621

НЬЮ-ЙОРК

NEW YORK

I had never spent so long in an aeroplane.

Nine hours in the air! I found the entire experi-
ence fascinating; the size of the plane, the num-
ber of people crammed together, the unpleasant
food served in plastic trays, night and day refus-
ing to behave as they should outside the small,
round windows. I also experienced jet lag for the
first time. It was a strange sensation, like being
dragged backwards down a hill. But I was in ex-
cellent shape. I was full of excitement about my
mission. I was able to fight it off.

I was entering the United States under my own
name and with a cover story that Scorpia had
supplied. I was a student on a scholarship from
Moscow State University, studying American

416/621

literature. I was here to attend a series of lectures
on famous American writers being given at the
New York Public Library. The lectures really
were taking place. I carried with me a letter of in-
troduction from my professor, a copy of my thes-
is and an NYPL programme. I would be staying
with my uncle and aunt, a Mr and Mrs Kirov,
who had an apartment in Brooklyn. I also had a
letter from them.

I joined the long queue in the immigration hall
and watched the uniformed men and women in
their booths stamping the passports of the people
in front of me. At last it was my turn. I was an-
noyed to feel my heart was thumping as I found
myself
facing a scowling black officer who
seemed suspicious of me before I had even
opened my mouth.

“What’s your business in the United States?”

he asked.

“I’m studying American literature. I’m here to

attend some lectures.”

“How long are you staying…?” He squinted at

my name in the passport. “…Yassen?”

417/621

“One week.”
I thought that would be it. I was waiting for
him to pick up the stamp and allow me in. In-
stead, he suddenly asked, “So how do you like
Scott Fitzgerald?”

I knew the name. F. Scott Fitzgerald had been
one of the greatest American writers of the twen-
really enjoyed The Great
tieth century. “I
Gatsby,” I said. “I think it’s his best book. Al-
though his next one, Tender is the Night, was
fantastic too.”

He nodded. “Enjoy your stay.”
The stamp came down. I was in.
I had one suitcase with me. Both the suitcase
and all the clothes inside it had been purchased in
Moscow. Of course I carried no weapon. It might
have been possible to conceal a pistol somewhere
in my luggage but it wasn’t a risk worth taking.
Thanks to America’s absurd gun laws, it would
be much easier to arm myself once I arrived. I

418/621

waited by the luggage carousel until my case ar-
rived. I knew at once that nobody had looked in-
side the case either at Rome Airport or here. If
the police or airport authorities had opened one
of the catches, they would have broken an elec-
trical circuit which ran through the handle. There
was a blue luggage tag attached and it would
change colour, giving me advance warning of
what had happened. The tag was still blue. I
grabbed the case and went out.

My contact was waiting for me in the arrivals
hall, holding up my name on a piece of white
card. He looked like all the other limo drivers:
tired and uninterested, dressed in a suit with a
white shirt and sunglasses, even though it was
early evening and there was little sign of the sun.
He had misspelt my name. The card read:
YASSEN GREGORIVICH. This was not a mis-
take. It was an agreed signal between the two of
us. It told me that he was who he said he was and
that it was safe for us to meet.

419/621

He did not tell me his name. Nor did I ask. I
doubted that the two of us would meet again. We
walked to the car park – or the parking garage as
the Americans called it – without speaking. He
had parked his car, a black Daimler, close to the
exit and held the door open for me as I slid into
the back seat. He climbed into the front, then
handed me another envelope. This one was also
marked with a scorpion.

“You’ll find your instructions inside,” he said.
“You can read them in the car. The drive is about
forty minutes. I’m taking you to the SoHo Plaza
Hotel, where a room has been reserved in your
name. You are to stay there this evening. There’ll
be a delivery at exactly ten o’clock. The man will
knock three times and will introduce himself as
Marcus. Do you understand?”

“Yes.”
“Good. There’s a bottle of water in the side

pocket if you need it…”

He started the engine and a moment later, we

set off.

420/621

Nothing quite prepares you for the view of
New York as you come over
the Brooklyn
Bridge; the twinkling lights behind thousands and
thousands of windows, the skyscrapers present-
ing themselves to you like toys in a shop win-
dow, so much life crammed into so little space.
The Empire State Building, the Chrysler Build-
ing, the Rockefeller Centre, the Beekman, the
Waldorf-Astoria … your eye travels from one to
the other but all too soon you’re overwhelmed.
You cannot separate them. They merge together
to become one island, one city. Every time you
return you will be amazed. But the first time you
will never forget.

I saw none of it. Of course I looked out as
I was carried over the East River but I couldn’t
believe I was really there. It was as if I was sit-
ting in some sort of prison and the tinted glass of
the car window was a silent television screen that
I was glimpsing out of the corner of my eye. If
you had told me, a year ago, that I would one day
arrive here in a chauffeur-driven car, I would

421/621

have laughed in your face. But the view meant
nothing. I had torn open the envelope. I had taken
out a few sheets of paper and two photographs. I
was looking at the face of the person I had come
to kill. My first thoughts had been wrong. My
target was not a man.

Her name was Kathryn Davis and she was a
lawyer, a senior partner in a firm called Clarke
Davenport based on Fifth Avenue. I suspected
that the address was an expensive one. The first
photograph was in black and white and had been
taken as she stood beside a traffic light. She was
a serious-looking woman with a square face and
light brown hair cut in a fringe. I would have
guessed she was in her mid-thirties. She was
wearing glasses that only made her look more
severe. There was something quite bullish about
her. I could easily imagine her tearing someone
apart in court. In the second photograph she was
smiling. This one was in colour and generally she
was more relaxed, waving at someone who was

not in the shot. I wondered which Kathryn Davis
I would meet. Which one would be easier to kill?

There was a newspaper article attached:

422/621

NY LAWYER THREATENED

In Red Knot Valley, Nevada, she’s a
heroine – but New York lawyer Kathryn
Davis claims she has received death threats
in Manhattan, where she lives and works.

Ms Davis represents two hundred and
twelve residents of the Red Knot com-
munity, who have come together in a class
action against
the multinational Pacific
Ridge Mining Company. They claim that
millions of tonnes of mining waste have
seeped into their ecosystem, killing their
fish, poisoning their crops and causing
widespread flooding. Pacific Ridge, which
has denied the claim, owns several “open
pit” gold mines in the area and when traces
of arsenic were found in the food chain, loc-
al people were quick to cry foul. It has

424/621

taken 37-year-old Kathryn Davis two years
to gather her evidence but she believes that
her clients will be awarded damages in ex-
cess of one billion dollars when the case
comes to court next month.

“It’s not been an easy journey,” says
mother-of-two Ms Davis. “My telephone
has been bugged. I have been followed in
the street. I have received hate mail that
makes threats against me and which I have
passed to the police. But I am not going to
let myself be intimidated. What happened in
Red Knot is a national scandal and I am de-
termined to get to the truth.”

I had also been supplied with the woman’s home
address – which was in West 85th Street – and a
photograph of her house, a handsome building
that looked out over a tree-lined street. According
to her biography, she was married to a doctor.
She had two children and a dog, a spaniel.

She was a member of several clubs and a gym.
There was a blank card at the bottom of the en-
velope. It contained just four words:

425/621

MUGGING. BEFORE THE WEEKEND.

It is embarrassing to remember this but I did not
understand the word ‘mugging’ – I had simply
never come across it – and I spent the rest of the
journey worrying that the driver or Marcus would
discover that I had no idea what I was meant to
do. I looked up the word the next day in a book-
shop and realized that Scorpia wanted this to look
like a street crime. As well as killing her, I would
steal money from her. That way there would be
no connection with Scorpia or the gold mines at
Pacific Ridge.

The driver barely spoke to me again. He pulled
up in front of an old-fashioned hotel, where there
were porters waiting to lift out my case and help
carry it into reception. I showed my passport and
handed over the credit card I had been given.

“You have a room for

four nights, Mr
Gregorovich,” the receptionist confirmed. That
would take me to Saturday. My plane back to

Italy left John F. Kennedy Airport at eleven
o’clock in the morning that day.

“Thank you,” I said.
“You’re in room 605 on the sixth floor. Have a

427/621

nice day.”

During my training, Oliver d’Arc had told me
the story of an Israeli agent working under cover
in Dubai. He had got
into a lift with seven
people. One of them had been his best friend.
The others were an elderly French woman who
was staying at the hotel, a blind man, a young
honeymooning couple, a woman in a burka and a
chambermaid. The lift doors had closed and that
was the moment when he discovered that all of
them – including his friend – were working for
al-Qaeda. When the lift doors opened again, he
was dead. I took the stairs to my floor and waited
for my case to be brought up.

The room was small, clean, functional. I sat on
the bed until the case came, tipped the porter and
unpacked. Before I left Malagosto, Gordon Ross
had supplied me with a couple of the items which

he had shown us during our lessons and which he
hoped would help me with my work. The first of
these was a travelling alarm clock. I took it out of
my suitcase and flicked a switch concealed in the
back. It scanned the entire room, searching for
electromagnetic signals … in other words, bugs.
There weren’t any. The room was clean. Next,
I took out a small tape recorder, which I stuck to
the back of the fridge. When I left the room, it
would record anyone who came in.

At ten o’clock exactly, there were three knocks
on the door. I went over and opened it to find an
elderly, grey-haired man, smartly dressed in a
suit with a coat hanging open. He had a neat
beard, also grey. If you had met him in the street
you might have thought he was a professor or
perhaps an official in a foreign embassy.

“Mr Gregorovich?” he asked.
It was all so strange. I was still getting used to

428/621

being called “Mr”. I nodded. “You’re Marcus?”

He didn’t answer that. “This is for you,” he
said, handing me a parcel, wrapped in brown

429/621

paper. “I’ll call back tomorrow night at the same
time. By then, I hope, you’ll have everything
planned out. OK?”
“Right,” I said.
“Nice meeting you.”
He left. I took the parcel over to the bed and
opened it. The size and weight had already told
me what I was going to find inside and, sure
enough, there it was – a Smith & Wesson 4546,
an ugly but efficient semi-automatic pistol that
looked old and well used. The serial number had
been filed off, making it impossible to trace. I
checked the clip. It had been delivered with six
bullets. So there it was. I had the target. I had the
weapon. And I had just four days to make the
kill.

The following morning, I stood outside the of-
fices of Clarke Davenport, which were located on
the nineteenth floor of a skyscraper in Midtown
Manhattan, quite close to the huge, white marble
structure of St Patrick’s Cathedral. This was quite
useful to me. A church is one of the few places in

430/621

a city where it is possible to linger without look-
ing out of place. From the steps, I was able to ex-
amine the building opposite at leisure, watching
the people streaming in and out of the three re-
volving doors, wondering if I might catch sight
of Kathryn Davis among them. I was glad she did
not appear. I was not sure if I was ready for this
yet. Part of me was worried that I never would
be.

the restaurants where they eat,

The secret of a successful kill is to know your
target. That was what I had been taught. You
have to learn their movements,
their daily
routine,
the
friends they meet, their tastes, their weaknesses,
their secrets. The more you know, the easier it
will be to find a time and an opportunity and the
less chance there will be of making a mistake.
You might not think I would learn a great deal
from staring at a building for five hours, but at
the end of that time I felt myself connected to it. I
had taken note of the CCTV cameras. I had coun-
ted how many policemen had walked past on

431/621

patrol. I had seen the maintenance men go in and
had noted which company they worked for.

At half past five that afternoon, just as the rush
to get home had begun and when everyone would
be at their most tired and impatient, I presented
myself at the main reception desk, wearing the
overalls of an engineer from Bedford (Long Is-
land) Electricity. I had visited the company earli-
er that afternoon – it was actually in Brooklyn –
pretending that I was looking for a job and it had
been simple enough to steal a uniform and an as-
sortment of documents. I had then returned to my
hotel, where I had manufactured an ID tag using
a square cut out from a company newsletter and a
picture of myself, which I had taken in a photo
booth. The whole thing was contained in a plastic
holder, which I had deliberately scratched and
made dirty so that it would be difficult to see.
Maintaining a false identity is mainly about men-
tal attitude. You simply have to believe you are
who you say you are. You can show someone a
travel card and they will accept it as police ID if

432/621

you do it with enough authority. Another lesson
from Malagosto.

The receptionist was a very plump woman
with her eye already fixed on the oversized clock
that was built into the wall opposite her. There
was a security man, in uniform, standing nearby.
“BLI Electrics,” I said. I spoke with a New
York accent, which had taken me many hours,
working with tapes, to acquire. “We’ve got a
heating unit down…” I pretended to consult my
worksheet. “Clarke Davenport.”

“I don’t think I’ve seen you before,” the wo-

man said.

“That’s right, ma’am.” I showed her my pass,
at the same time holding her eye so she wouldn’t
look at it too closely. “It’s my first week in the
job. And it’s my first job,” I added proudly. “I
only graduated this summer.”

She smiled at me. I guessed that she had chil-
dren of her own. “It’s the nineteenth floor,” she
said.

The security man even called the lift for me.

433/621

I took it as far as the eighteenth floor, then got
out and made my way to the stairwell. It was still
too early and I had a feeling lawyers wouldn’t
keep normal office hours. I waited an hour,
listening to the sounds in the building … people
saying goodbye to each other, the chimes of the
lifts as the doors opened and shut. It was dark by
now and with a bit of luck the building would be
empty apart from the cleaners. I walked up one
floor and found myself in the reception area of
Clarke Davenport with two silver letters – C and
D – on the wall. There was no one there. The
lights were burning low. A pair of frosted glass
doors opened onto a long corridor, a length of
plush blue carpet leading clients past conference
rooms with leather chairs and tables polished like
mirrors. My feet made no sound as I made my
way through an open-plan area filled with desks,
computers and photocopying machines, but as I
reached the far end I saw a movement out of the
corner of my eye and suddenly I was being
challenged.

434/621

“Can I help you?”
I hadn’t seen the young, tired-looking woman
who had been bending down beside a filing cab-
inet. She was wearing a coat and scarf, about to
leave, but she hadn’t gone yet and I had allowed
her to see me. My heart sank at such careless-
ness. I could almost hear Sefton Nye shouting at
me.

“The water cooler,” I muttered, pointing down

the corridor.

“Oh. Sure.” She had found the file she was

looking for and straightened up.

I continued walking. With a bit of luck, she

wouldn’t even remember we’d met.

All the offices at Clarke Davenport had the
names of their occupants printed next
to the
doors. That was helpful. Kathryn Davis was at
the far end. She must have been important to the
company as she had been given a corner office
with views over Fifth Avenue and the cathedral.
The door was locked but that was no longer a
problem for me. Using a pick and a tension

435/621

wrench I had it open in five seconds and let my-
self into a typical lawyer’s office with an antique
desk, two chairs facing it, a shelf full of books, a
leather sofa with a coffee table and various pic-
tures of mountain scenery. I turned on her desk
lamp. It might have been safer to use a torch but I
didn’t intend to stay here long and having proper
light would make everything easier.

I went straight to the desk. There was a framed
photograph of the woman with her two children,
a girl and a boy, aged about fourteen and twelve.
They were all wearing hiking gear. There was
nothing of any interest in her drawers. I opened
her diary. She had client meetings all week,
lunches booked in the following day and on Fri-
day some sort of evening engagement. The entry
read:

I quickly checked out the rest of the room. All
the books were about law except for two on the
coffee table which contained reproductions of
famous paintings. She also had a catalogue from
an auction house … a sale of modern art. Briefly,
I brushed my fingers over the sofa, trying to get a
sense of the woman who might have sat on it.
But the truth was that the office told me only so
much about Kathryn Davis. It had been designed
that way, to present a serious, professional image
to the clients who came here but nothing more.

Even so, I had got what I had come for. I knew

when and where the killing would take place.

I was back in my hotel room and at exactly ten
o’clock there was a knock at the door. The man
who called himself Marcus had returned. This
time he came in.

MET 7.00 p.m.

D home

“Well?” He waited for me to speak.
“Friday night,” I said. “Central Park.”

It hadn’t taken me long to work out the diary
entry, even without a detailed knowledge of the
city. The art books on the table had been the clue.
MET obviously meant the Metropolitan Museum
of Art, a New York landmark. I had already tele-
phoned them and discovered that there was in-
deed a private function at the museum that night
for the American Bar Association … Kathryn
Davis would certainly be a member. The D in the
diary was her husband, David. He was going to
be home, babysitting. She would be there on her
own.

I explained this to Marcus. His face gave noth-
ing away but he seemed to approve of the idea.
“You’re going to shoot her in the park?” he
asked. “How do you know she won’t take a cab?”
“She likes walking,” I said. The hiking gear
and the mountain photographs had told me that.
“And look at the map. She lives in West 85th
Street. That’s just a ten-minute stroll across the
park.”

437/621

“What if it’s raining?”

“Then I’ll have to do it when she comes out.
But I’ve looked at the forecast and it’s going to
be unusually warm and dry.”

“You’re lucky. This time last year it was
snowing.” Marcus nodded. “All right. It sounds
as if you’ve got it all worked out. If things go ac-
cording to plan, you won’t see me again. Throw
the gun into the Hudson. Make sure you’re on
that Saturday plane. Good luck.”

438/621

You should never rely on luck. Nine times out
of ten it will be your enemy and if you need it, it
means you’ve been careless with your planning.

I was back outside St Patrick’s Cathedral the
next day and this time I did glimpse Kathryn
Davis as she got out of a taxi and went into the
building. She was shorter than I had guessed
from her photographs. She was wearing a smart,
beige-coloured overcoat and carried a leather
briefcase so full of files that she wasn’t able to
close it. Seeing her jolted me in a strange way. I
wasn’t afraid. It seemed to me that Scorpia had
deliberately chosen an easy target for my first

439/621

assignment. But somehow the stakes had been
raised. I began to think about what I was going to
do, about taking the life of a person I had never
met and who meant nothing to me. Today was
Thursday. By the end of the week, my life would
have changed and nothing would ever be the
same again. I would be a killer. After that, there
could be no going back.

The days passed in a blur. New York was such
an amazing city with its soaring architecture, the
noise and the traffic, the shop windows filled
with treasures, the steam rising out of the streets
… I wish I could say I enjoyed my time there.
But all I could think about was the job, the mo-
ment of truth that was getting closer and closer. I
continued to make preparations. I examined the
house in West 85th Street. I saw where the chil-
dren went to school. I went to the Metropolitan
Museum of Art and found the room where the
private function would take place, checking out
all the entrances and exits. I bought a silicone
cloth and some degreaser, stripped the gun down

and made sure it was in perfect working order.
I meditated, using methods I had learned on
Malagosto, keeping my stress levels down.

Friday evening was warm and dry, just as the
weather office had predicted. I was standing out-
side the office on Fifth Avenue when Kathryn
Davis left and I saw her hail a cab. That didn’t
surprise me. It was six forty-five and her destina-
tion was thirty blocks away. I hailed a second cab
and followed. It took us twenty minutes to weave
our way through the traffic, and when we arrived
there were crowds of smartly dressed people
making their way in through the front entrance of
the museum. Somehow we had managed to over-
take the taxi carrying Kathryn Davis and it took
me a few anxious moments to find her again. She
had just met a woman she knew and the two of
them were kissing in the manner of two profes-
sionals rather than close friends, not actually
touching each other.

440/621

As I stood watching, the two of them went in
the women

together. I very much hoped that

441/621

would not leave together too. It had always been
my assumption that Kathryn Davis would walk
home alone. What if her friend offered to accom-
pany her? What if there was a whole group of
them? I could see now that I had made a mistake
leaving the killing until my last evening in New
York. I had to be on a plane at eleven o’clock the
following morning. If anything went wrong to-
night, there could be no backup. I wouldn’t get a
second chance.

It was too late to worry about that now. There
was a long plaza in front of the museum with an
ornamental pool and three sets of steps running
up to the main door. I found a place in the shad-
ows and waited there while more taxis and lim-
ousines arrived and the guests went in. I could
hear piano music playing inside.

Nobody saw me. I was wearing a dark coat,
which I had bought in a thrift shop and which
was one size too large for me. I had chosen it for
the pockets, which were big enough to conceal
both the gun and my hand which was curved

442/621

around it. It was an easy draw – I had already
checked. I would get rid of the coat at the same
time as the gun. I was very calm. I knew exactly
what I was going to do. I had played out the
scene in my mind. I didn’t let it trouble me.

At nine-thirty, the guests began to leave. She
was one of the first of them, talking to the same
woman she had met when she had arrived. It
seemed that they were going to set off together.
Did it really matter, the death of two women in-
stead of one? I was about to embark on a life
where dozens, maybe hundreds of men and wo-
men would die because of me. There would al-
ways be innocent bystanders. There would be po-
licemen – and policewomen – who might try to
stop me. I could almost hear Oliver d’Arc talking
to me.

The moment you start worrying about them,
the moment you question what you are doing –
goodbye, Yassen! You’re dead!

I put my hand in my pocket and found the gun.
One woman. Two women. It made no difference
at all.

443/621

In fact, Kathryn Davis walked off on her own.
She said something to her friend, then turned and
left. Just as I had expected, she went round the
side of the museum and into Central Park. I
followed.

Almost at once we were on our own, cut off
from the traffic on Fifth Avenue, the other guests
searching for their cars and taxis. The way ahead
was clear. Light was spilling out from a huge
conservatory at the back of the museum, throw-
ing dark green shadows between the shrubs and
trees. We crossed a smaller road – this one closed
to traffic – that ran through the park. Over to the
left, a stone obelisk rose up in a clearing. It was
called Cleopatra’s Needle. I had stood in front of
it that afternoon. A couple of joggers ran past,
two young men in tracksuits, their Nike trainers
hitting the track in unison. I turned away, making
sure they didn’t see my face. The moon had come

out, pale and listless. It didn’t add much light to
the scene. It was more like a distant witness.

Kathryn Davis had taken one of the paths that
circled the softball fields with a large pond on her
left. She knew exactly where she was going, as if
she had done this walk often. I was about ten
paces behind her, slowly catching up, trying to
pretend that I had nothing to do with her. We
were already halfway across. I was beginning to
hear the traffic noise on the other side. And then,
quite suddenly, she turned round and looked at
me. I would not say that she was scared but she
was aggressive. She was using her body language
to assert herself, to tell me that she wasn’t afraid
of me. There was an electric lamp nearby and it
reflected in her glasses.

“Excuse me,” she said. “Are you following

444/621

me?”

The two of us were quite alone. The joggers
had gone. There were no other walkers anywhere
near. What she had done was really quite stupid.
If she had become aware of me, which she

445/621

clearly had, she would have done better to in-
crease her pace, to reach the safety of the streets.
Instead, she had signed her death warrant. I could
shoot her here and now. We were less than ten
paces apart.

“What do you want?” she demanded.
I was trying to take out the gun. But I couldn’t.
It was just like when I had played Russian roul-
ette with Vladimir Sharkovsky. My hand
wouldn’t obey me. I felt sick. I had planned
everything so carefully, every last detail. In the
last four days, I had done nothing else. But all the
time, I had ignored my own feelings and it was
only now, here, that I realized the truth. I was
not, after all, a killer. This woman was about the
same age as my own mother. She had two chil-
dren of her own. If I shot her down, simply for
money, what sort of monster would that make
me?

If you don’t kill her, Scorpia will kill you, a

voice whispered in my ear.

Let them, I replied. It would be better to be

dead than to become what they want.

446/621

“Who are you?” Kathryn Davis asked.
“I’m no one,” I said. I took my hands out of
my coat pockets, showing that they were empty.
“I was just walking.”

She relaxed a little. “Well, maybe you should

keep your distance.”

“Sure. I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to scare you.”
“Yeah – OK.”
She stood there, watching me, waiting for me
to go. I quickly walked past her, then turned off
in another direction.

I didn’t look back. Inside, I felt glad. That was
the simple truth. I was happy that she was still
alive. I was aware of a sense of huge relief, as if I
had just fought a battle with myself and won. I
saw now that from the moment I had climbed in-
to the helicopter with Rykov – or Mr Grant – I
had been sinking into some sort of mental quick-
sand. Mrs Rothman in Venice. Sefton Nye, Hat-
sumi Saburo and Oliver d’Arc on Malagosto …

447/621

they had all been drawing me into it. They were
like a disease. And I had come so close to being
infected. I had been about to kill somebody! If
Kathryn Davis had not turned and spoken to me,
I might well have done what I had been told. I
might have committed murder.

The sound of the gunshot was not loud but it
was close and my first thought was that I had
been targeted. But even as I dropped to one knee,
drawing out the Smith & Wesson, I knew that the
direction was wrong, that the bullet had not come
close. At that moment I was helpless. I had lost
my focus, the vital self-knowledge – who I am,
where I am, what is around me – that Saburo had
drummed into me a hundred times. Anyone could
have picked me off.

Kathryn Davis was dead. I saw it at once. She
had been shot in the back of the head and lay on a
circle of dark grass, her arms and legs stretched
out in the shape of a star. There was someone
walking towards her, wearing a coat and black
gloves, a gun in his hand. I recognized the neat

beard, the unworried eyes. It was Marcus, the
man who had met me at the hotel.

He checked the body, nodded to himself. Then
he saw me. He had his gun. I had mine. But I saw
instantly that there was no question of our firing
at each other. He looked at me almost sadly.

“Make sure you’re on that plane tomorrow,”

448/621

he said.

I wanted to talk to him. I wanted to explain
what had happened, how I felt, but he had
already turned his back on me and was walking
away into the shadows. In the distance I heard the
wail of a police siren. It might have nothing to do
with what had happened here. Even if someone
had heard the shot, they wouldn’t know where it
had come from. But it still warned me that it was
time to go.

I walked out of the park and all the way to the
Hudson River with the darkened mass of New
Jersey in front of me. I took out the gun and
weighed it in my hand, feeling nothing but loath-
ing … for it and for myself. At the same time, I

was aware of the first stirrings of fear. I would
pay for this.

I threw the gun into the river. Then I went

449/621

back to the hotel.

The following day, I left for Venice.

ВТОРОЙ ШАНС

SECOND CHANCE

“I have to say, Yassen, we are extremely disap-
pointed with you.”

Sefton Nye was sitting behind the desk in his
darkened office, his hands coming together in a
peak in front of his face as if he were at prayer. A
single light shone above his head, reflecting in
the polished brass buttons on the sleeves of his
blazer. His heavy, white eyes were fixed on me.
He was surrounded by photographs of leering
pirates,
trapped in the headlines of the world
news. His family. He was as ruthless as they
were and I wondered why I was still alive. In Sil-
ver Forest, an assassin sent by Scorpia had made
a mistake. He had emptied his gun into Vladimir
Sharkovsky but had failed to finish him off and

for that he had been executed right in front of my
eyes. But I was still here. Oliver d’Arc was also
in the room, his hands folded in his lap. He had
chosen a chair close to the door, as if he wanted
to keep as far away from me as possible.

“What do you have to say?” Nye asked.
I had prepared for this scene, on the plane to
Rome, the train to Venice, the boat across the la-
goon. But now that I was actually sitting here,
now that it was happening, it was very hard to
keep hold of everything I had rehearsed.

452/621

“You knew I wasn’t ready,” I said. I was care-
ful to keep my voice very matter-of-fact. I didn’t
want them to think I was accusing them. The im-
portant thing was to defend myself without seem-
ing to do so. That was my plan. If I tried to make
excuses, it would all be over and Marat or Sam
would spend the evening burying me in the
woods. I was here for a reason. I still had to
prove myself. “Your agent followed me,” I went
on. “There was no other reason for him to be in
Central Park. And I was never needed. He would

have done the job … which is exactly what
happened. I think you knew I would fail.”

453/621

D’Arc twitched slightly. Nye said nothing. His
eyes were still boring into me. “It is true that Dr
Steiner was not satisfied with your progress,” he
intoned at last. “He warned us there was a sev-
enty per cent probability that you would be un-
able to fulfil your assignment.”

I suppose I shouldn’t have been surprised. Dr
Steiner had been hired because he knew what he
was doing and, despite my attempts to fool him,
he had read me like a book. “If I wasn’t ready,
why did you let me go?” I asked.

Very slowly, Nye nodded his head. “You have
a point, Yassen. Part of the reason we sent you to
New York was an experiment. We wanted to see
how you would operate under pressure and, in
some respects, you handled yourself quite well.
You successfully broke into the offices of Clarke
Davenport, although it might have been wise to
change your appearance … perhaps the colour of
your hair. Also, you were seen by a secretary.

454/621

That was careless. However, we can overlook
that. You did well to work out the movements of
your target and Central Park was a sensible
choice.”

“But you didn’t kill her!” d’Arc muttered. He
sounded angry, like an old lady who has been
kept waiting for her afternoon tea.

“Why did you fail?” Nye asked me.
I thought for a moment. “I think it was because
she spoke to me,” I said. “I had seen her photo-
graph. I had followed her from the office. But
when she spoke to me … suddenly everything
changed.”

Another silence. The two men were making
me sweat but I didn’t think they were going to
kill me. I already had a sense of how Scorpia op-
erated. If they had decided I was no use to them,

“Do you think you will ever be able to do this

“Of course. Next time will be different.”
“What makes you think there will be a next

work?”

time?”

455/621

they wouldn’t have bothered bringing me back to
the island. Marcus could have shot me down with
the same gun he had used on Kathryn Davis. I
could have been stabbed or strangled on the boat
and dropped overboard. These were people who
didn’t waste their time.

Nye could see that I had worked it out. “All
right,” he said. “We will draw a line under this
unfortunate event. You are very fortunate,
Yassen, that Mrs Rothman has taken a personal
liking to you. It’s also to your advantage that
you’ve had such excellent reports from your in-
structors. Even Dr Steiner believes there is
something special about you. We think that you
may one day become the very best in your pro-
fession – and whatever the reputation of our or-
ganization, we haven’t forgotten that you are
very young. Everyone deserves a second chance.
Just be aware that there won’t be a third.”

I didn’t thank him. It would only have annoyed

him.

“We have decided to take your training up a
notch. We are aware that you need to make a
mental adjustment and so we want you to go
back out into the field as soon as possible – but
this time in the company of another agent, a new
recruit. He is a man who has already killed for us
on two occasions. By staying close to him, you
will learn survival techniques, but more than that
we hope he will be able to provide you with the
edge that you seem to lack.”

“He is a remarkable man,” d’Arc added. “A
British soldier who has seen action in Ireland and
Africa.
I think the two of you will get on
famously.”

456/621

“You will have dinner with him tonight in
Venice,” Nye said. “And you will spend a few
weeks training with him, here on the island. As
soon as he agrees that you are ready, the two of
you will leave together. First you will be going to
South America, to Peru. He has a target there and
we’re just arranging the final details. Assuming
that goes well, you will return to Europe and

there will be a second assignment, in Paris. The
more time you spend together, the better. There’s
only so much you can achieve in the classroom. I
think you will
find this experience to be
invaluable.”

“What’s his name?” I asked.
“When you are travelling together, you will
address each other using code names only,” Nye
replied. We have chosen a good one for you. You
will be Cossack. There was a time when the Cos-
sacks were famous soldiers. They were Russian,
just like you, and they were much feared. I hope
it will inspire you.”

457/621

I nodded. “And his?”
A man stepped forward. He had been standing
in the room, observing me all the time, lost in the
shadows. It seemed incredible to me that I hadn’t
noticed him but at the same moment I understood
that he must be a master in the ninja techniques
taught by Hatsumi Saburo, that he was able to
hide in plain sight. He was in his late twenties
and still looked like a soldier in his physique, in

458/621

the way he carried himself,
in his close-cut
brown hair. His eyes were also brown, watchful
and serious, yet with just a hint of humour. He
was wearing a sweatshirt and jeans. Even as he
walked towards me, I saw that he was more re-
laxed than anyone I had met on the island. Both
Nye and Oliver D’Arc seemed almost nervous of
him. He was totally in control.

He reached out a hand. I shook it. He had a

firm clasp.

“Hello, Yassen,” he said. “I’m John Rider. The

code name they’ve given me is Hunter.”

ОХОТНИК

HUNTER

What is it about Alex Rider?

The Stormbreaker business may have been the
first time we crossed paths, but it seems to me
that our lives were like two mirrors placed oppos-
ite each other, reflecting endless possibilities. It’s
strange that when I met his father, Alex hadn’t
even been born. That was still a few months
away. But
those months, my time with John
Rider, made a huge difference to me. He wasn’t
even ten years older than me but from the very
start I knew that he had come from a completely
different world and that we would never be on
the same level. I would always look up to him.

We had dinner that night at a restaurant he
knew near the Arsenale, a dark, quiet place run

461/621

by a scowling woman who spoke no English and
dressed in black. The food was excellent. Hunter
had chosen a booth in the corner, tucked away
behind a pillar, somewhere we would not be
overheard. I call him that because it was the
name he told me to use from the very start. He
had good reason to hide his identity – there had
been stories written about him in the British press
– and there was less chance of my letting it slip
out if it never once crossed my lips.

He ordered drinks – not alcohol but a red fruit
syrup made from pomegranates called grenadine,
which I had never tasted before. He spoke good
Italian, though with an accent. And just as I had
noted at our first meeting, he had an extraordin-
ary ease about him, that quiet confidence. He was
the sort of man you couldn’t help liking. Even the
elderly owner warmed up a little as she took the
order.

“I want you to tell me about yourself,” he said
as the first course – pink slivers of prosciutto
ham and chilled melon – was served. “I’ve read

your file. I know what’s happened to you. But I
don’t know you.”

“I’m not sure where to start,” I said.
“What was the best present anyone ever gave

462/621

you?”

The question surprised me. It was the last thing
anyone on Malagosto would have asked or would
have wanted to know. I had to think for a mo-
ment. “I’m not sure,” I said. “Maybe it was the
bicycle I was given when I was eleven. It was
important to me because everyone in the village
had one. It put me on the same level as all the
other boys and it set me free.” I thought again.
“No. It was this.” I slid back the cuff of my jack-
et. I was still wearing my Pobeda watch. After
the loss of my mother’s jewels, it was the only
part of my old life that had remained with me. In
a way, it was quite extraordinary that I still had it,
that I hadn’t been forced to pawn it in Moscow or
had it stolen from me by Ivan at the dacha. After
everything I had been through, it was still work-
ing, ticking away and never losing a minute. “It

was my grandfather’s,” I explained. “He’d given
it to my father and my father passed it onto me
after he died. I was nine years old. I was very
proud that he thought I was ready for it, and now,
when I look at it, it reminds me of him.”

“Tell me about your grandfather.”
“I don’t really remember him. I only knew him
when we were in Moscow and we left when I
was two. He only came to Estrov a few times and
he died when I was young.” I thought of the wife
he had left behind. My grandmother. The last
time I had seen her, she had been at the sink,
peeling potatoes. Almost certainly she would
have been standing there when the flames en-
gulfed the house. “My father said he was a great
man,” I recalled. “He was there at Stalingrad in
1943. He fought against the Nazis.”

463/621

“You admire him for that?”
“Of course.”
“What is your favourite food?”
I wondered if he was being serious. Was he
playing psychological games with me, like Dr

464/621

Steiner? “Caviar,” I replied. I had tasted it at din-
ner parties at the dacha. Vladimir Sharkovsky
used to eat mounds of it, washed down with iced
vodka.

“Which shoelace do you tie first?”
“Why are you asking me these questions?”

I snapped.

“Are you angry?”
I didn’t deny it. “What does it matter which
shoelace I tie first?” I said. I glanced briefly at
my trainers. “My right foot. OK? I’m right-
handed. Now are you going to explain exactly
what that tells you about who I am?”

“Relax, Cossack.” He smiled at me and al-
though I was still puzzled, I found it difficult to
be annoyed with him for very long. Perhaps he
was playing with me but there didn’t seem to be
anything malicious about it. I waited to hear what
he would ask next. Again, he took me by sur-
prise. “Why do you think you were unable to kill
that woman in New York?” he asked.

“You already know,” I said. “You were in the

465/621

study when I told Sefton Nye.”

“You said it was because she spoke to you. But
I don’t think I believe you … not completely.
From what I understand, you could have gunned
her down at any time. You could have done it
when she turned the corner from the museum.
You were certainly close enough to her when you
were at Cleopatra’s Needle.”

“I couldn’t do it then. There were two people

running, joggers…”

“I know. I was one of them.”
“What?” I was startled.
“Don’t worry about it, Cossack. Sefton Nye
asked me to take a look at you so I was there. We
flew here on the same plane.” He raised his glass
as if he was toasting me and drank. “The fact is
that you had plenty of opportunities. You know
that. You waited until she turned round and
talked to you. I think you wanted her to talk to
you because it would give you an excuse. I think
you’d already made up your mind.”

He wasn’t exactly accusing me. There was
nothing in his face that suggested he was doing
anything more than stating the obvious. But
I found myself reddening. Although I would nev-
er have admitted it to Nye or d’Arc, it was pos-
sible he was right.

“I won’t fail again,” I said.
“I know,” he replied. “And let’s not talk about
it any more. You’re not being punished. I’m here
to try and help. So tell me about Venice. I
haven’t had a chance to explore it yet. And I’d be
interested to hear what you think about Julia
Rothman. Quite a woman, wouldn’t you say…?”
The second course arrived, a plate of home-
made spaghetti with fresh sardines. In my time
on Malagosto, I had come to love Italian food
and I said so. Hunter smiled but I got the strange
feeling that, once again, I had said the wrong
thing.

466/621

For the next hour we talked together, avoiding
anything to do with Malagosto, my training,
Scorpia or anything else. He didn’t tell me very

much about himself but he mentioned that he
lived in London and I asked him lots of questions
about the city, which I had always hoped to visit.
The one thing he let slip was that he had been
married – although I should have noticed myself.
He had a plain gold ring on his fourth finger. He
didn’t
say anything about his wife and I
wondered if he was divorced.

The bill arrived. “It’s time to go back,” Hunter
said as he counted out the cash. “But before we
go, I think I should tell you something, Cossack.
Scorpia have high hopes for you. They think you
have the makings of a first-rate assassin. I don’t
agree. I would say you have a long way to go be-
fore you’re ready. It’s possible you never will
be.”

467/621

“How can you say that?” I replied. I was com-
pletely thrown. I had enjoyed the evening and
thought there was some sort of understanding
between the two of us. It was as if he had turned
round and slapped me in the face. “You hardly
know me,” I said.

468/621

“You’ve told me enough.” He leant towards
me and suddenly he was deadly serious. At that
moment, I knew that he was dangerous, that I
could never relax completely when I was with
him. “You want
to be a contract killer?” he
asked. “Every answer you gave me was wrong.
You tie your shoelaces with your right hand. You
are right-handed. A successful assassin will be as
comfortable shooting with his right hand as with
his left. He has to be invisible. He has no habits.
Everything he does in his life, right down to the
smallest detail, he does differently every time.
The moment his enemies learn something about
him, the easier it is to find him, to profile him, to
trap him.

“So that means you can’t have preferences.
Not French food, not Italian food. If you have a
favourite meal, a favourite drink, a favourite any-
thing, that gives your enemy ammunition. Cos-
sack is fond of caviar. Do you know how many
shops there are in London that sell caviar, how
many restaurants that serve it? Not many. The

469/621

intelligence services may not know your name.
They may not know what you look like. But if
they discover your tastes, they’ll be watching and
you’ll have made it that much easier for them to
find you.

“You talk to me about your grandfather. Forget
him. He’s dead and you have nothing more to do
with him. If he’s anything to you, he’s your en-
emy because if the intelligence services can find
him, they’ll dig him up and take his DNA and
that will lead them to you. Why are you so proud
of the fact that he fought against the Nazis? Is it
because they’re the bad guys? Forget it! You’re
the bad guy now … as bad as any of them. In
fact, you’re worse because you have no beliefs.
You kill simply because you’re paid. And while
you’re at it, you might as well stop talking about
Nazis, Communists, Fascists,
the Ku Klux
Klan… As far as you’re concerned, you have no
politics and every political party is the same. You
no longer believe in anything, Cossack. You

don’t even believe in God. That is the choice
you’ve made.”
He paused.
“Why did you blush when I asked you about

470/621

“Because you were right.” What else could I

New York?”

say?

“You showed your feelings to me here, at this
table. You’re embarrassed so you blush. You got
angry when I asked you about your laces and you
showed that too. Are you going to cry when
you meet your next
target? Are you going to
tremble when you’re interviewed by the police?
If you cannot learn to hide your emotions, you
might as well give up now. And then there’s your
watch…”

I knew he would come to that. I wished now

that I hadn’t mentioned it.

“You are Cossack, the invisible killer. You’ve
been successful in New York, in Paris, in Peru.
But the police examine the CCTV footage and
what do they see? Somebody was there at all

471/621

three scenes and – guess what! – they were wear-
ing a Russian watch, a Pobeda. You might as
well leave a visiting card next to the body.” He
shook his head. “If you want to be in this busi-
ness, sentimentality is the last thing you can af-
ford. Trust me, it will kill you.”

“I understand,” I said.
“I’m glad. Did you enjoy the meal?”
I was about to answer. Then I had second
thoughts. “Perhaps it’s better if I don’t tell you,”
I said.

Hunter nodded and got to his feet. “Well, you
wolfed it down fast enough. Let’s get back to the
island. Tomorrow I want to see you fight.”

He made me fight like no one else.

The next morning, at nine o’clock, we met in
the gymnasium. The room was long and narrow
with walls that curved overhead and windows
that were too high up to provide a view. When
there were monks on the island, this might have
been where they took their meals, sitting in

472/621

silence and contemplation. But since then it had
been adapted with arc lights, stadium seating and
a fighting area fourteen metres square made up of
a tatami mat that offered little comfort when you
fell. We were both dressed in karate-gi,
the
white, loose-fitting tunics and trousers used in
karate. Hatsumi Saburo was watching from one
of the stands. I could tell that he was not happy.
He was sitting with his legs apart, his hands on
his knees, almost challenging the new arrival to
take him on. Marat and Sam were also there,
along with a new student who had just joined us,
a young Chinese guy who never spoke a word to
me and whose name I never learnt.

We walked onto the mat together and stood
face to face. Hunter was about three inches taller
than me and heavier, more muscular. I knew he
would have an advantage over me both in his
physical reach and in the fact that he was more
experienced. He began by bowing towards me,
the traditional rei that is the first thing every
combatant learns at karate school. I bowed back.

And that was my first mistake. I didn’t even see
the move. Something slammed into the side of
my face and suddenly I was on my back, tasting
blood where I had bitten my tongue.

473/621

Hunter leant over me. “What do you think this
is?” he demanded. “You think we’re here to play
games, to be polite to each other? That’s your
first mistake, Cossack. You shouldn’t trust me.
Don’t trust anyone.”

He reached out a hand to help me to my feet. I
took it – but instead of getting up I suddenly
changed my grip, pulling him towards me and
pressing down on his wrist. I’d adapted a ninjutsu
move known as Ura Gyaku, or the Inside Twist,
and it should have brought him spinning onto the
mat. I thought I heard a grunt of satisfaction from
HS but it might just as well have been derision
because Hunter had been expecting my move and
slammed his knee into my upper arm. If I hadn’t
let go, he’d have broken it. Instantly, I rolled
aside, just missing a foot strike that whistled past
my head. A second later, I was on my feet. The

474/621

two of us squared up again, both of us taking the
Number One Posture – arms raised, our bodies
turned so as to provide the smallest
target
possible.

I learnt more in the next twenty minutes than I
had in my entire time on Malagosto. No. That’s
not quite true. With HS and Mr Nye I had ac-
quired a thorough grounding in judo, karate and
ninjutsu. In an incredibly short amount of time,
they had taken me all the way from novice to
third or fourth kyu – which is to say, brown or
white belt. I would spend the rest of my life
building on what they had given me, and they
were both far ahead of Hunter when it came to
basic martial arts
techniques. But he had
something they hadn’t. As Oliver d’Arc had told
me, Hunter had seen action as a soldier in Africa
and Ireland. I would later learn that he had been
with the Parachute Regiment, a rapid intervention
strike force and one of the toughest outfits in the
British Army. He knew how to fight in a way that
they didn’t. They taught me the rules but he

broke them. In that first fight we had together, he
did things that simply shouldn’t have worked but
somehow did. Once or twice I glimpsed HS shak-
ing his head in disbelief, watching his own train-
ing manual being torn up. I was knocked down
countless times and not once did I see the move
coming. Nothing I had been taught seemed to
work against him.

After twenty minutes, he stepped back and sig-
nalled that the fight was over. “All right, Cos-
sack, that will do for now.” He smiled and held
out a hand – as if to say “no hard feelings”. I
reached out and took it, but this time I was ready.
Before he could throw me, which of course was
what he intended, I twisted round, using his own
weight against him. Hunter disappeared over my
shoulder and crashed down onto the mat. He had
landed on his back but sprang up at once.

475/621

“You’re learning.” He smiled his approval,
then walked away, snatching up a bottle of water.
I watched him, grateful that in the very last mo-
ment of the fight I had at least done something

right and hadn’t made a complete fool of myself
in front of my teachers. At
the same time it
crossed my mind that he might actually have al-
lowed me to bring him down, simply to let me
save face. I had liked and admired Hunter when I
had eaten with him the night before. But now I
felt a sort of closeness to him. I was determined
not to let him down.

We spent a lot of time together over the next
few weeks – running, swimming, competing on
the assault course, facing each other with more
hand-to-hand combat in the gym. He was also
training the other recruits and I know that they
felt exactly the same way about him as I did. He
was a natural teacher. Whether it was target prac-
tice or night-time scuba-diving, he brought out
the best in us. Julia Rothman was also an ad-
mirer. The two of them had dinner several times
when she returned to Venice, although I was nev-
er invited.

476/621

I have to say that I was not very comfortable
on Malagosto. It was as if I had left school after

477/621

taking my exams only to find myself inexplicably
back again. Everyone knew that I had failed in
New York. And time was moving on. My nine-
teenth birthday had come and gone without any-
one noticing it … including me. It was time to
move on, to stand on my own two feet.

So I was very glad when Sefton Nye called me
to his office and told me that I would be leaving
in a few days. “We all agree that the last time
was too early,” he said. “But on this occasion you
will be travelling with John Rider. He is taking
care of some business for us and you will be
there strictly as his assistant. You will do
everything he says. Do you understand?”

“Yes.”
He had been holding my latest report, all the
work of the last five weeks. I watched him as he
got up from his desk and slid it into the filing
cabinet against the wall. “It is very unusual for
anyone to be given a second chance in this organ-
ization,” he added. He twisted round and sud-
denly he was gazing at me, his great, white eyes

478/621

challenging me. “We can put New York behind
us. John Rider speaks very highly of you and
that’s what matters. It’s good to learn from your
mistakes but I will give you one piece of advice,
Yassen. Don’t make any more.”

I could not sleep that night. There was a storm
over Venice – no wind or rain but huge sheets of
lightning that flared across the sky, turning the
domes and the towers of the city into black cut-
outs. Winter was approaching and as I lay in bed,
the curtains flapping, I could feel a chill in the
air. I was excited about the mission. I was flying
all the way to Peru – and if that went well, I
would find myself
there was
something else. John Rider had told me almost
nothing about himself. I was expected to follow
him across the world, to obey him without ques-
tion and yet the man was a complete mystery to
me. Was he a criminal? He might have been in
the British Army but why had he left? How had
he found his way into Scorpia?

in Paris. But

Suddenly I wanted to know more about John
Rider. It didn’t seem fair. After all, he’d been
given my files. He knew everything about me.
How could we travel together when everything
was so one-sided? How could I ever face him on
even terms?

I slipped out of bed and got dressed. I’d made
a decision without even thinking it through. It
was stupid and it might be dangerous but what
was my new life about if it wasn’t about taking
risks? Nye kept files on everyone in his office. I
had seen him lock mine away only a few hours
ago. He would also have a file on John Rider. His
office was on the other side of the quadrangle,
just a few metres from where I was standing now.
Breaking in would be easy. After all, I’d been
trained.

479/621

Everyone was asleep. Nobody saw me as I left
accommodation block and crossed the
the
cloisters of what had once been the monastery.
The door to Nye’s office wasn’t even locked.
There were some on the island who would have

480/621

regarded that as an unforgivable breach of secur-
ity and it puzzled me – but I suppose he felt he
was safe enough. It would have been impossible
to reach Malagosto from the mainland without
being detected and he knew everything about
everyone who was here. Who would even have
considered breaking in? The lightning flashed si-
lently and for a brief moment I saw the iron chan-
delier, the books, the different clocks, the pirate
faces – all of them stark white, frozen. It was as
if the storm was warning me, urging me to leave
while I still could. I felt a pulse of warm air,
pushing against me. This was madness.
I
shouldn’t be here.

But still I was determined. The next day I was
leaving with John Rider. We were going to be to-
gether for a week or more and I would feel more
comfortable – less unequal – if I knew something
of his background. I’ll admit that I was curious
but it also made sense. I had been encouraged to
learn everything I could about my targets. It
seemed only right that I should apply the same

481/621

rule to a man who was taking me into danger and
on whom my life might depend.

I went over to the cabinet – the one where Nye
had deposited my personal file. I had brought the
tools I would need from my bedroom, although
examining the lock, I saw it was much more
sophisticated than anything I had opened before.
Another dazzling burst of lightning. My own
shadow seemed to leap over my shoulder. I fo-
cused on the lock, testing it with the first pick.

And then, with shocking violence, I felt myself
two fists
seized from behind in a headlock,
crossed behind my neck, and although I immedi-
ately brought my hands up in a counter-move,
reaching out for the wrists, I knew I was too late
and that one sudden wrench would snap my spin-
al cord, killing me instantly. How could it have
happened? I was certain nobody had followed me
in.

For perhaps three seconds I stayed where I
was, kneeling there, caught in the death grip,
waiting for the crack that would be the sound of

482/621

my own neck breaking. It didn’t come. I felt the
hands relax. I twisted round. Hunter was standing
over me.

“Cossack!” he said.
“Hunter…”
“What are you doing here?” The lightning
flickered but perhaps the worst of the storm had
passed. “Let’s go outside,” Hunter said. “You
don’t want to be found in here.”

We went back out and stood beneath the bell
tower. I could feel that strange mixture of hot and
cold in the air. We were enclosed by the walls of
the monastery. We were alone but we spoke in
low voices.

“Tell me what you were doing,” Hunter said.
His face was in shadow but I could feel his eyes
probing me.

I had already decided what I was going to say.
I couldn’t tell him the truth. “Nye had my file
this morning,” I said. “I wanted to read it.”

“Why?”

“I wanted to know I was ready. After what
happened in New York, I didn’t want to let you
down.”

“And you thought your report would tell you

483/621

that?”

I nodded.
“You’re an idiot, Cossack.” That was what he
said but there was no anger in his voice. If any-
thing, he was amused. “I saw you go in and I fol-
lowed you,” he explained. “I didn’t know who
you were. I could have killed you.”

“I didn’t hear you,” I said.
He ignored that. “If I didn’t think you were
ready, I wouldn’t be taking you,” he said. He
thought for a moment. “I have a feeling it would
be better if neither of us said anything about this
little incident. If Sefton Nye knew you’d been
creeping about in his study, he might get the
wrong idea. I suggest you go back to bed. We’ve
got an early start. The boat’s coming tomorrow at
seven o’clock.”

“Thanks, Hunter.”

“Don’t thank me. Just don’t pull a stunt like
this again. And…” He turned and walked away.
“Get some sleep!”

484/621

I was up before sunrise. My gear was packed.
I had my passport and credit cards along with the
dollars I’d saved from New York. All my visas
had been arranged.

There was no one around as I walked down to
the edge of the lagoon, my feet crunching on the
gravel. For a long time I stood there, watching
the sun climb over Venice, different shades of
pink, orange and finally blue rippling through the
sky. I knew that my training was over and that I
would not be coming back to Malagosto, at least
not as a student.

I thought about Hunter, all the lessons he had
taught me. He would be with me very soon and
the two of us were going to travel together. He
was going to give me the one thing that I had
been unable to find in all my time on the island. I

suppose you could call it the killer instinct. It was
all I lacked.

I trusted him completely. There was something

485/621

I had to do.

I took off my watch, my old Pobeda. As
I weighed it in my hand, I saw my father giving it
to me. I heard his voice. I was just nine years old,
so young, still in short trousers, living in the
house in Estrov.

My grandfather’s watch.
I held it one last time, then swung my arm and

threw it into the lagoon.

КОМАНДИP

THE COMMANDER

His name was Gabriel Sweetman and he was a
drug lord, sometimes known as “the Sugar Man”,
more often as “the Commander”.

He was born in the slums of Mexico City.
Nothing is known about his parents but he first
came to the attention of the police when he was
eight years old, selling missing car parts to mo-
torists. The reason the parts were missing was be-
cause he had stolen them, helped by his twelve-
year-old sister, Maria. When he was twelve, he
sold his sister. By then, it was said that he had
killed for the first time. He moved into the drugs
business when he was thirteen, first dealing on
the street, then working his way up until he be-
came the lieutenant to “Sunny” Gomez, one of

the biggest traffickers in Mexico. At the time, it
was estimated that Gomez was smuggling three
million dollars’ worth of heroin and cocaine into
America every day.

488/621

Sweetman murdered Gomez and took over his
business. He also married Gomez’s wife, a
former Miss Acapulco called Tracey. Thirty
years later, it was rumoured that Sweetman was
worth twenty-five billion dollars. He was trans-
porting cocaine all over the world, using a fleet
of Boeing 727 jet aircraft which he also owned.
He had murdered over two thousand people, in-
cluding fifteen judges and two hundred police of-
ficers. Sweetman would kill anyone who crossed
his path and he liked to do it slowly. Some of his
enemies he buried alive. It was well known that
he was mad, but only his family doctor had been
brave enough to say so. He had killed the family
doctor.

I do not know how or why he had come to the
attention of Scorpia. It is possible that they been
hired to take him out by another drug lord. It

might even have been the Mexican or the Amer-
ican government. He certainly was not being ex-
ecuted because he was bad. Scorpia was occa-
sionally involved in drug trafficking itself, al-
though it was a dirty and an unpleasant business.
People who spend large amounts of money doing
harm to themselves and to their customers are not
usually very reliable. Sweetman had to die be-
cause someone had paid. That was all it came
down to.

And it was going to be expensive because this
was not an easy kill. Sweetman looked after him-
self. In fact, he made Vladimir Sharkovsky look
clumsy and careless by comparison.

489/621

Sweetman kept a permanent retinue around
him – not just six bodyguards but an entire pla-
toon. This was how he had got the name of the
Commander. He had houses in Los Angeles,
Miami and Mexico City, each one as well forti-
fied as an army command post. The houses were
kept in twenty-four-hour readiness. He never let
anyone know when he was leaving or when he

490/621

was about to arrive, and when he did travel it was
first by private jet and then in an armour-plated,
bulletproof limousine with two outriders on mo-
torbikes and more bodyguards in front and be-
hind. He had four food tasters, one in each of his
properties.

The house where he spent most of his time was
in the middle of the Amazon jungle, one hundred
miles south of Iquitos. This is one of the few cit-
ies in the world that cannot be reached by road,
and there were no roads going anywhere near the
house either. Trying to approach on foot would
be to risk attacks from jaguars, vipers, anacondas,
black caimans, piranhas, tarantulas or any other
of the fifty deadly creatures that inhabited the
rainforest … assuming you weren’t bitten to
death by mosquitoes first. Sweetman himself
came and went by helicopter. He had complete
faith in the pilot, largely because the pilot’s eld-
erly parents were his permanent guests and he
had given instructions for them to suffer very
horribly if anything ever happened to him.

491/621

Scorpia had looked into the situation and had
decided that Sweetman was at his most vulner-
able in the rainforest. It is interesting that they
had a permanent team of advisers – strategy plan-
ners and specialists – who had prepared a con-
sultation document for them. The house in Los
Angeles was too close to its neighbours, the one
in Miami too well protected. In Mexico City,
Sweetman had too many friends. It was another
measure of the man that he spent ten million dol-
lars a year on bribes. He had friends in the police,
the army and the government, and if anyone
asked questions about him or tried to get too
close, he would know about it at once.

In the jungle, he was alone and – like so many
successful men – he had a weakness. He was
punctual. He ate his breakfast at exactly seven-
fifteen. He worked with a personal trainer from
eight until nine. He went to bed at eleven. If he
said he was going to leave at midday, then that
would be when he would go. This is exactly what
Hunter had tried to explain to me the night we

492/621

met, in Venice. Sweetman had told us something
about himself. He had a habit and we could use it
against him.

Hunter and I had flown first from Rome to
Lima and from there we had taken a smaller
plane to Iquitos, an extraordinary city on the
south bank of the Amazon with Spanish cathed-
rals, French villas, colourful markets and straw
huts built on stilts, all tangled up together along
the narrow streets. The whole place seemed to
live and breathe for the river. It was hot and hu-
mid. You could taste the muddy water in the air.
We stayed two days in a run-down hotel in the
downtown area, surrounded by backpackers and
tourists and plagued by cockroaches and mosqui-
toes. Since so many of the travellers were from
Britain and America, we communicated only in
French. I spoke the language quite badly at this
stage and the practice was good for me. Hunter
used the time to buy a few more supplies and to
book our passage down river on a cargo boat. We
were pretending to be birdwatchers. We were

493/621

supposed to camp on the edge of the jungle for
two weeks and then return to Iquitos. That was
our cover story and while I was on Malagosto I
had learned the names of two hundred different
species – from the white-fronted Amazon parrot
to the scarlet macaw. I believe I could still identi-
fy them to this day. Not that anybody asked too
many questions. The captain would have been
happy to drop us anywhere – provided we were
able to pay.

We did not camp. As soon as the boat had
dropped us off on a small beach with a few
Amazon Indian houses scattered in the distance
and children playing in the sand, we set off into
the undergrowth. We were both equipped with
the five items which are the difference between
life and death in the rainforest: a machete, a com-
pass, mosquito nets, water purification tablets
and waterproof shoes. The last item may sound
unlikely but the massive rainfall and the dense
humidity can rot your flesh in no time. Hunter
had said it would take six days to reach the

compound where Sweetman lived. In fact, we
made it in five.

494/621

How do I begin to describe my journey
through that vast, suffocating landscape… I do
not know whether to call it a heaven or a hell.
The world cannot live without its so-called green
lungs and yet the environment was as hostile as it
is possible to imagine with thousands of unseen
dangers every step of the way. I could not gauge
our progress. We were two tiny specks in an area
that encompassed one billion acres, hacking our
way through leaves and branches, always with
fresh barriers in our path. All manner of different
life forms surrounded us and the noise was end-
less:
the croaking of
frogs, the murmur of the river, the sudden snap-
ping of branches as some large predator hurried
past. We were lucky. We glimpsed a red and yel-
low coral snake … much deadlier than its red and
black cousin. In the night, a jaguar came close
and I heard its awful, throaty whisper. But all the
things that could have killed us left us alone and

the screaming of birds,

495/621

neither of us became sick. That is something that
has been true throughout my whole life. I am
never ill. I sometimes wonder if it is a side-effect
of the injection my mother gave me. It protected
me from the anthrax. Perhaps it still protects me
from everything else.

We did not speak to each other as we walked.
It would have been a waste of energy and all our
attention was focused on the way ahead. But
even so, I felt a sort of kinship with Hunter. My
life depended on him. He seemed to find the way
almost instinctively. I also admired his fitness
and stamina as well as his general knowledge of
survival techniques. He knew exactly which roots
and berries to eat, how to follow the birds and in-
sects to waterholes or, failing that, how to extract
water from vines. He never once lost his temper.
The jungle can play with your mind. It is hot and
oppressive. It always seems to stand in your way.
The insects attack you, no matter how much
cream you put on. You are dirty and tired. But
Hunter
I

remained good-natured throughout.

496/621

sensed that he was pleased with our progress and
satisfied that I was able to keep up.

We only slept for five hours at night, using the
moon to guide us after the sun had set. We slept
in hammocks. It was safer to be above the
ground. After we’d eaten our jungle rations –
what we’d found or what we’d brought with us –
we’d climb in and I always looked forward to the
brief conversation, the moment of companion-
ship, we would have before we slept.

On the fourth night we set up camp in an area
which we called The Log. It was a circular clear-
ing dominated by a fallen tree. When I had sat on
it I had almost fallen right through, as it was
completely rotten and crawling with termites.
“You’ve done very well so far,” Hunter said.
“It may not be so easy coming back.”

“Why’s that?”
“It’s possible we’ll be pursued. We may have

to move more quickly.”

“The red pins…”
“That’s right.”

Whenever we came to a particular landmark, a
place with a choice of more than one route, I had
seen Hunter pressing a red pin close to the base
of a tree trunk. He must have positioned more
than a hundred of them. Nobody else would no-
tice them but they would provide us with a series
of pointers if we needed to move in a hurry.

“What will we do if he isn’t there?” I asked.

“Sweetman may have left.”

497/621

“According to our intelligence, he’s not leav-
ing until the end of the week. And never call him
by his name, Cossack. It personalizes him. We
need to think of him as an object … as dead
meat. That’s all he is to us.” His voice floated out
of the darkness. Overhead, a parrot began to
screech. “Call him the Commander. That’s how
he likes to see himself.”

“When will we be there?”
“Tomorrow afternoon. I want to get there be-
fore sunset … to give us time to reconnoitre the
place. I need to find a position, to make the kill.”

“I could shoot him for you.”

“No, Cossack, thanks all the same time. This

time you’re strictly here for the ride.”

498/621

We were up again at first light, the sky silver,
the trees and undergrowth dark. We sipped some
water and took energy tablets. We rolled up our
hammocks, packed our rucksacks and left.

Sure enough, we reached the compound in the
late afternoon. As we folded back the vegetation,
we were suddenly aware of the sun glinting off a
metal fence and crouched down, keeping out of
sight. It was always possible that there would be
guards patrolling outside the perimeter, although
after half an hour we realized that the Command-
er had failed to take this elementary precaution.
Presumably he felt he was safe enough inside.

Moving very carefully, we circled round, al-
ways staying in the cover of the jungle some dis-
tance from the fence. Hunter was afraid that there
would be radar, tripwires and all sorts of other
devices that we might activate if we got
too
close. Looking through the gaps in the trees, we
could see that
the fence was electrified and

499/621

enclosed a collection of colonial buildings spread
out over a pale green lawn. They were similar in
style to the ones we had seen in Iquitos. There
were a lot of guards in dark green uniforms,
patrolling the area or standing with binoculars
and assault rifles in rusting metal towers. Their
long isolation had done them no good. They were
shabby and listless. Hunter and I were both wear-
ing jungle camouflage with our faces painted in
streaks, but if we’d been in bright red they would
not have noticed us.

The compound had begun life twenty years be-
fore as a research centre for an environmental
group studying the damage being done to the
rainforest. They had all died from a mysterious
sickness and a week later the Commander had
moved in. Since then, he had adapted it to his
own needs, adding huts for his soldiers and body-
guards, a helicopter
landing pad, a private
cinema, all the devices he needed for his security.
In some ways it reminded me of the dacha in Sil-
ver Forest, although the setting could not have

been more different. It was only their purpose
that was the same.

The Commander lived in the largest house,
which was raised off the ground, with a veranda
and electric fans. Presumably there would be a
generator somewhere inside the complex. We
watched through field glasses for more than an
hour, when suddenly he emerged, oddly dressed
in a silk dressing gown and pyjamas. It was still
early evening. He went over to speak to a second
man in faded blue overalls. His pilot? The heli-
copter was parked nearby, a four-seater Robinson
R44. The two of them exchanged a few words,
then the Commander went back into the house.

“It’s a shame we can’t hear them,” I said.
“The Commander is leaving at eight o’clock

500/621

tomorrow morning,” Hunter replied.

I stared at him. “How do you know?”
“I can lip-read, Cossack. It comes in quite use-
ful sometimes. Maybe you should learn to do the
same.”

501/621

I hardly slept that night. We retreated back into
the undergrowth and hooked up our hammocks
once more, but we couldn’t risk the luxury of a
campfire and didn’t speak a word. We swallowed
down some cold rations and closed our eyes. But
I lay there for a long time, all sorts of thoughts
running through my head.

I really had hoped that Hunter might let me
make the kill. My old psychiatrist, Dr Steiner,
would not have been happy if I had told him this,
but I thought it would be much easier to assassin-
ate a drug lord, an obviously evil human being,
than a defenceless woman in New York. It would
have been a good test for me … my first kill. But
I could see now that it was out of the question.
The position of the helicopter in relation to the
main house meant that we would have, at most,
ten seconds to make the shot. Just ten steps and
the Commander would be safely inside. If I hesit-
ated or, worse still, missed, we would not have a
second opportunity. Sefton Nye had already told
me. I was here to assist and to observe and I

knew I had to accept it. Hunter was the one in
charge.

502/621

We were in position much earlier than we
needed to be – at seven o’clock. Hunter had been
carrying the weapon he was going to use ever
since we had left Iquitos. It was a .88 Winchester
sniper rifle; a very good weapon, perfect for
long-range shooting with minimal
I
watched as he loaded it with a single cartridge
and adjusted the sniper scope. It seemed to me
that he and the weapon were one. I had noticed
this already on the shooting range on Malagosto.
When Hunter held a gun, it became part of him.

recoil.

The minutes ticked away. I used my field
glasses to scan the compound, waiting for the
Commander to reappear. The soldiers were in
their towers or patrolling the fence but the atmo-
sphere was lazy. They were really only half
awake. At ten to eight, the pilot came out of his
quarters, yawning and stretching. We watched as
he climbed into the helicopter, went through his
checks and started the rotors. Very quickly, they

began to turn, then disappeared in a blur. All
around us, birds and monkeys scattered through
the branches, frightened away by the noise. The
Commander had still not stepped out at
two
minutes to eight and I began to wonder if he had
changed his mind. I knew the time from the
cheap watch that I had bought for myself at the
airport. I was sweating. I wondered if it was
nerves or the close, stifling heat of the morning.

Something touched my shoulder.
My first thought was that it was a leaf that had
fallen from a tree – but I knew at once that it was
too heavy for a leaf.

503/621

It moved.
My hand twitched and it was all I could do to
stop myself reaching out and attempting to flick
this … thing, whatever it was … away. I felt its
weight shift as it went from my shoulder onto my
neck and I realized that it was alive and that it
was moving. It reached the top of my shirt and
I shuddered as it legs prickled delicately against
my skin. Even without seeing it, I knew it was

some sort of spider, a large one. It had lowered it-
self onto me while I crouched behind Hunter.

My mouth had gone dry. I could feel the blood
pounding in the jugular vein that ran up the side
of my neck and I knew that the creature would
have been drawn to that area, fascinated by the
warmth and by the movement. And that was
where it remained, clinging to me like some
hideous growth. Hunter had not seen what had
happened. He was still focused on the compound,
his eye pressed against the sniper scope. I didn’t
dare call out. I had to keep my breath steady
without turning my head. Straining, I looked out
of the corner of my eye and saw it. I recognized it
at once. A black widow. One of the most venom-
ous spiders in the Amazon.

504/621

It still refused to move. Why wouldn’t it con-
tinue on its way? I tensed myself, waiting for it to
continue its journey across my face and into my
hair, but still it stayed where it was. I didn’t know
if Hunter had brought anti-venom with him but it
would make no difference if he had. If it bit me

in the neck, I would die very quickly. Maybe it
was waiting to strike even now, savouring the
moment. The spider was huge. My skin was re-
coiling, my whole body sending out alarm signals
that my brain could not ignore.

I wanted to call to Hunter, but even speaking
one word might be enough to alarm the spider. I
was filled with rage. After the failure of New
York I had been determined that I would give a
good account of myself in Peru, and so far I
hadn’t put a foot wrong. I couldn’t believe that
this had happened to me … and now! I tried to
think of something I could do … anything … but
I was helpless. There was no further movement
in the compound. Everyone was waiting for the
Commander to make his appearance. I knew it
would happen at any moment. It was strangely
ironic that I might die at exactly the same time as
him.

505/621

In the end, I whistled. It was such an odd thing
to do that it would surely attract Hunter’s atten-
tion. It did. He turned and saw me standing there,

paralysed, no colour in my face. He saw the
spider.

506/621

And it was right then that the door of the house
opened and the Commander came out, wearing
an olive green tunic and carrying a briefcase, fol-
lowed by two men with a third walking ahead. I
knew at that moment that I was dead. There was
nothing Hunter could do for me. He had his in-
structions from Scorpia and less than ten seconds
in which to carry them out. I had almost forgotten
about the helicopter but now the whine of its ro-
tors enveloped me. The Commander was walking
steadily towards the cockpit.

Hunter made an instant decision. He sprang to
his feet and moved behind me. Was he really go-
ing to abort the mission and save my life? Surely
it had to be one or the other. Shoot the Com-
mander or get rid of the spider. He couldn’t do
both and after everything he had told me, his
choice was obvious.

I didn’t know what he was doing. He had posi-
tioned himself behind me. The Commander had

507/621

almost reached the helicopter, his hand stretching
out towards the door. Then, with no warning at
all, Hunter fired. I heard the explosion and felt a
streak of pain across my neck, as if I had been
sliced with a red hot sword. The Commander
grabbed hold of his chest and crumpled, blood
oozing over his clenched fingers. He had been
shot in the heart. The men surrounding him threw
themselves flat, afraid they would be targeted
next. I was also bleeding. Blood was pouring
down the side of my neck. But the spider had
gone.

That was when I understood. Hunter had
aimed through the spider and at the Commander.
He had shot them both with the same bullet.

“Let’s move,” he whispered.
There was no time to discuss what had
happened. The bodyguards were already panick-
ing, shouting and pointing in our direction. One
of them opened fire, sending bullets randomly in-
to the rainforest. The guards in the towers were

508/621

searching for us. More men were running out of
the huts.

We snatched up our equipment and ran, allow-
ing the mass of leaves and branches to swallow
us up. We left behind us a dead drug lord with a
single bullet and a hundred tiny fragments of
black widow in his heart.

“You saved my life,” I said.

Hunter smiled. “Taking a life and saving a
life … and with just one bullet. That’s not bad
going,” he said.

We had put fifteen miles between ourselves
and the compound, following the red pins until
the fading light made it impossible to continue
and we had to stop for fear of losing our way. We
had reached The Log, the campsite where we had
spent the night before, and this time I was careful
not to sit on the hollow tree. Hunter spent ten
minutes stretching out tripwires all around us.
These were almost invisible, connected to little
black boxes that he screwed into the trunks of the

trees. Once again, we didn’t dare light a fire.
After we had hooked up our hammocks, we ate
our dinner straight out of the tin. It amused me
that Hunter insisted on carrying the empty tins
with us. He had just killed a man, but he
wouldn’t litter the rainforest.

Neither of us was ready for sleep. We sat
cross-legged on the ground, listening out for the
sound of approaching feet. It was a bright night.
The moon was shining and everything around us
was a strange silvery green. To my surprise,
Hunter had produced a quarter-bottle of malt
whisky. It was the last thing I would have expec-
ted him to bring along. I watched him as he held
it to his lips.

509/621

“It’s a little tradition of mine,” he explained, in
a low voice. “A good malt whisky after a kill.
This is a twenty-five-year-old Glenmorangie.
Older than you!” He held it out to me. “Have
some, Cossack. I expect your nerves need it after
that little incident. That spider certainly chose its
moment.”

510/621

“I can’t believe what you did,” I said. There
was a bandage around my neck, already stained
with sweat and blood. It hurt a lot and I knew that
I would always have a scar where Hunter’s bullet
had cut me, but in a strange way I was glad. I did
not want to forget this night. I sipped the whisky.
It burnt the back of my throat. “What now?” I
asked.

“A slog back to Iquitos and then Paris. At least
it’ll be a little cooler over there. And no damn
mosquitoes!” He slapped one on the side of his
neck.

We were both at peace. The Commander was
dead, killed in extraordinary circumstances. We
had the whisky. The moon was shining. And we
were alone in the rainforest. That’s the only way
that I can explain the conversation that followed.
At least, that was how it seemed at the time.

“Hunter,” I said. “Why are you with Scorpia?”
I would never normally have asked.
It was
wrong. It was insolent. But out here, it didn’t
seem to matter.

I thought he might snap at me but he reached
out for the bottle and answered quietly, “Why
does anyone join Scorpia? Why did you?”

“You know why,” I said. “I didn’t really have

511/621

any choice.”

“We all make choices, Cossack. Who we are in
this world, what we do in it. Generous or selfish.
Happy or sad. Good or evil. It’s all down to
choice.”

“And you chose this?”
“I’m not sure it was the right choice but I’ve
got nobody else to blame, if that’s what you
mean.” He paused, holding the bottle in front of
him. “I was in a pub,” he said. “It was in the
middle of London … in Soho. Me and a couple
of friends. We were just having a drink, minding
our own business. But there was a man in there, a
taxi driver as it turned out … a big fat guy in a
sheepskin coat. He overheard us talking and real-
ized we were all army, and he began to make ob-
noxious remarks. Stupid things. I should have

just ignored him or walked out. That was what
my friends wanted to do.

“But I’d been drinking myself and the two of
us got into an argument. It was so bloody stupid.
The next thing I knew, I’d knocked him to the
ground. Even then, there were a dozen ways I
could have hit him. But I’d let my training get the
better of me. He didn’t get up and suddenly the
police were there and I realized what I’d done.”
He paused. “I’d killed him.”

He fell silent. All around us, the insects contin-

512/621

ued their chatter. There wasn’t a breath of wind.

“I was dismissed from the army and thrown in-
to jail,” he went on. “As it happened, I wasn’t
locked up for very long. My old regiment pulled
a few strings and I had a good lawyer. He man-
aged to put in a claim of self-defence and I was
let out on appeal. But after that I was finished.
No one was going to employ me and even if they
did, d’you think I wanted to spend the rest of my
life as a security guard or behind a desk? I didn’t

know what to do. And then Scorpia came along
and offered me this. And I said yes.”

“Are you married?” I asked.
He nodded. “Yeah. I’ve been married three
years and there’s a kid on the way. At least I’m
going to have enough money to be able to look
after him.” He paused. “If it is a boy. You see
what I mean? My choice.”

The whisky bottle passed between us one last

time. It was almost empty.

“Maybe it’s not too late for you to change your

513/621

mind,” he said.

I was startled. “What do you mean?”
“I’m thinking about New York. I’m thinking
about the last few weeks … and today. You seem
like a nice kid to me, Cossack. Not one of
Scorpia’s usual recruits at all. I wonder if you’ve
really got it in you to be like me. Marat and Sam
… they don’t give a damn. They’ve got no ima-
gination. But you…?”

“I can do this,” I said.

514/621

“But do you really want to? I’m not trying to
dissuade you. That’s the last thing I want to do. I
just want you to be aware that once you start,
there’s no going back. After the first kill – that’s
it.”

He hesitated. We both did. I wasn’t sure how

out the options.”

I’m not sure what I would have said if the con-
versation had continued but just then we heard
something; the croaking of a frog at the edge of

to respond.

“If I backed out now, Scorpia would kill me.”
“I rather doubt
it. They’d be annoyed, of
course. But I think you’re exaggerating your own
importance. They’d very quickly forget you.
Anyway, you’ve learnt enough to keep away
from them. You could change your identity, your
appearance, start somewhere new. The world is a
big place – and there are all sorts of different
things you could be doing in it.”

“Is that what you’re advising me?” I asked.
“I’m not advising you anything. I’m just laying

the clearing. At least, that was what it would
have sounded like to anyone approaching, but it
wasn’t a frog that was native to the Amazon rain-
forest. One of the wires that Hunter had set down
had just been tripped and what we were hearing
was a recording, a warning. Hunter was on his
feet instantly, crouching down, signalling to me
with an outstretched hand. I had a gun. It had
been supplied to me when we were in Iquitos – a
Browning 9mm semi-automatic, popular with the
Peruvian Army and unusual in that it held thir-
teen rounds of ammunition. It was fully loaded.

I heard another sound. The single crack of a
branch breaking, about twenty metres away. A
beam of light flickered between the trees, thrown
by a powerful torch. There was no time to gather
up our things and no point in wondering who
they were, how they had followed us here. We
had already planned what to do if this happened.
We got up and began to move.

515/621

They came in from all sides. Six of the Com-
mander’s men had taken it upon themselves to

follow us into the rainforest. Why? Their em-
ployer was dead and there was going to be no re-
ward for bringing in his killers. Perhaps they
were genuinely angry. We had, after all, removed
the source of their livelihood. I saw all of them as
they arrived. The moon was so bright that they
barely had any need of their torches. They were
high on drugs, dirty and dishevelled with hollow
faces, bright eyes and straggly beards.

Two of them had cigarettes dangling from
their mouths. They were wearing bits and pieces
of military uniform with machine guns slung
over their shoulders. One of them had a dog, a pit
bull terrier, on a chain. The dog had brought
them here. It began to bark, straining against the
leash, knowing we were close.

516/621

But the men saw no one. They had arrived at
an empty clearing with a tree lying on its side,
nobody in front of it, nobody behind, termites
crawling over the bark. Our empty hammocks
were in front of them. Perhaps their torches
picked up the empty whisky bottle on the ground.

“¡Vamos a hacerlo!” One of them gave the or-

517/621

der in Spanish, his voice deep and guttural.

As one,

the men opened fire, spraying the
clearing with bullets, shooting into the surround-
ing jungle. After the peace of the night, the noise
was deafening. For at least thirty seconds the
clearing blazed white and the surrounding leaves
and branches were chopped to smithereens. None
of the men knew what they were doing. They
didn’t care that they had no target.

We waited until their clips had run out and
then we stood up, dead wood cascading off our
shoulders. We had been right next to the soldiers,
lying face down, inside the fallen tree. We were
covered with termites, which were crawling over
our backs and into our clothes. But termites do
not bite you. They do not sting. We had disturbed
their habitat and they were all over us but we
didn’t care.

We opened fire. The soldiers saw us too late.
I was not sure what happened next, whether I ac-
tually killed any of them. There was a blaze of

518/621

gunfire, again incredibly loud, and I saw the
ragged figures being blown off their feet. One of
them managed to fire again but the bullets went
nowhere, into the air. I was firing wildly but
Hunter was utterly precise and mechanical,
choosing his targets then squeezing the trigger
again and again. It was all over very quickly. The
six men were dead. There didn’t seem to be any
more on the way.

I brushed termites off my shoulders and out of

We collected our things.
“I shot them,” I said. “What you were saying
to me … you were wrong. I was with you. I
killed some of them.” I wasn’t even sure it was
true. Hunter could have taken out all six himself.
But we weren’t going to argue about it now.

He shook his head. “If you killed…” He put
the emphasis on the first word. “You did it in the

my hair. “Is that all of them?” I whispered.

“I don’t think so,” Hunter said. “But we’d bet-

ter get moving.”

dark, in self-defence. That doesn’t make you a
murderer. It’s not the same.”

“Why not?” I couldn’t understand him. What

519/621

was he trying to achieve?

He turned and suddenly there was a real dark-
ness in his eyes. “You want to know what the dif-
ference is, Yassen?” He had used my real name
for the first time. “We have another job in Paris,
very different to this one. You want to know
what it’s really like to kill? You’re about to find
out.”

ПАРИЖ

PARIS

Our target in Paris was a man called Christophe
Vosque, a senior officer in the Police nationale.
He was, as it happens, totally corrupt. He had re-
ceived payments from Scorpia, and in return had
turned a blind eye to many of their operations in
France. But recently he had got greedy. He was
demanding more payments and, worse still, he
had been in secret
the
French secret service. He was planning a double-
cross and Scorpia had decided to make an ex-
ample of him by taking him out. This was to be a
punishment killing. It had to make headlines.

talks with the DGSE,

However, for once Scorpia had got their intel-
ligence wrong. No sooner had we arrived at
Charles de Gaulle Airport than we were informed

that Vosque was not in the city after all. He had
gone on a five-day training course, meaning that
we had the entire week to ourselves. Hunter
wasn’t at all put out.

“We need a rest,” he said. “And since
Scorpia’s paying, we might as well check
ourselves in somewhere decent. I can show you
around Paris. I’m sure you’ll like it.”

522/621

thick carpets,

He booked us into the luxurious Hotel Ge-
orge V, close to the Champs-Elysées. It was far
more than decent. In fact, I had never stayed any-
where like this. The hotel was all velvet curtains,
chandeliers,
tinkling pianos and
massive flower displays. My bathroom was
marble. The bath had gold taps. Everyone who
stayed here was rich and they weren’t afraid to
show it. I wondered if Hunter had brought me
here for a reason. Normally we would have
stayed somewhere more discreet and out-of-the-
way but I suspected that he was testing me,
throwing me into this gorgeous, alien environ-
ment
to see how I would cope. He spoke

523/621

excellent French; mine was rudimentary. He was
in his late twenties and already well travelled; I
was nineteen. I think it amused him to see me
dealing with the receptionists, the managers and
the waiters in their stiff collars and black ties, try-
ing to convince them that I had as much right to
be there as anyone … trying to convince myself.
It was certainly true that we both deserved a
rest. The journey into the rainforest and out
again, the death of the Commander, the shoot-out
that had followed, our time in Iquitos, even the
long flight back to Europe had exhausted us, and
we both had to be in first-rate condition when we
came up against Vosque. And if that meant eat-
ing the best food, and waking up in five-star lux-
ury, I wasn’t going to argue.

the first

We had adjoining rooms on the third floor and
both spent
twenty-four hours asleep.
When I woke up, I ordered room service … the
biggest breakfast I have ever eaten, even though
it was the middle of the afternoon. I had a hot
bath with the foam spilling over the edges. I

524/621

sprawled on the bed and watched TV. They had
English and Russian channels but I forced myself
to listen in French, trying to attune myself to the
language.

The next day, Hunter showed me the city.
I had done more travelling in the past few weeks
– Venice, New York, Peru – than I had in my en-
tire life, but I loved every minute of my time in
Paris. A few of the things we did were obvious.
We went up the Eiffel Tower. We visited Notre-
Dame. We strolled around the Louvre and stood
in front of its most famous works of art. All this
could have been boring. I have never been very
interested in tourism, staring at things and taking
photographs of them simply because they are
there. But Hunter made it fun. He had stories and
insights that brought everything to life. Standing
in front of the Mona Lisa he told me how it had
once been stolen – that was back in 1911 – and
explained how he would set about stealing it
now. He described how Notre-Dame had been
constructed, an incredible feat of engineering,

525/621

more than eight hundred years before. And he
took me to many unexpected places: the sewers,
the flea markets, Père-Lachaise Cemetery with its
bizarre mausoleums and famous residents,
the
sculpture garden where Rodin had once lived.

But what I enjoyed most was just walking the
streets – along the Seine,
through the Latin
quarter, around the Marais. It was quite cold –
spring had still not quite arrived – but the sun
was out and there was a sparkle in the air. We
drifted in and out of coffee houses. We browsed
in antique shops and bought clothes on the Aven-
ue Montaigne. We ate fantastic ice cream at
Maison Berthillon on the Île-St-Louis. Curiously,
this was where the founder members of Scorpia
had first come together – but perhaps wisely
there was no blue plaque to commemorate the
event.

We ate extremely well in restaurants that were
empty of tourists. Hunter didn’t like to spend a
fortune on food and never ordered alcohol. He

preferred grenadine, the red syrup he had intro-
duced me to in Venice. I drink it to this day.

526/621

We never once discussed the business that had
brought us here but we were quietly preparing for
it. At six o’clock every morning we went on a
two-hour run together… It was a spectacular cir-
cuit down the Champs-Elysées,
through the
Jardins des Tuileries and across the Seine. There
was a pool and a gym at the hotel and we swam
and worked out for two hours or more. I some-
times wondered what people made of us. We
could have been friends on holiday or perhaps,
given our age difference, an older and a younger
brother. That was how it felt sometimes. Hunter
never refered back to our conversation in the
jungle, although some of the things he had said
remained in my mind.

We had arrived on a Monday. On the
Thursday, Hunter received a note from the conci-
erge as we were leaving the hotel and read it
quickly without showing it to me. After that, I
sensed that something had changed. We took the

527/621

Metro to Montmartre that day and walked around
the narrow streets with all the artists’ studios and
drank coffee in one of the squares. It was just
warm enough to sit outside. By now we were re-
laxed in each other’s company but I could tell
that Hunter was still agitated. It was only when
we reached the great white church of Sacré-
Cœur, with its astonishing views of Paris, that he
turned to me.

“I need to have some time on my own,” he

said. “Do you mind?”

“Of course not.” I was surprised that he even

needed to ask.

“There’s someone I have to meet,” he went on.
He was more uneasy than I had ever seen him.
“But I’m breaking the rules. We’re both under
cover. We’re working. Do you understand what
I’m saying? If Julia Rothman found out about
this, she wouldn’t be pleased.”

“I won’t tell her anything,” I said. And I meant

it. I would never have betrayed Hunter.

“Thank you,” he said. “We can meet back at

528/621

the hotel.”

I walked away but I was still curious. The
more I knew about Hunter the more I got the
feeling that there were so many things he wasn’t
telling me. So when I reached the street corner, I
turned back. I wanted to know what he was going
to do.

And that was when I saw her.
She was standing on the terrace in front of the
main entrance of the church. There were quite a
few tourists around but she stood out because she
was alone and pregnant. She was quite small –
the French would say petite – with long fair hair
and pale skin, wearing a loose, baggy jacket with
her hands tucked into her pockets. She was
pretty.

Hunter was walking towards her. She saw him
and I saw her face light up with joy. She hurried
over to him. And then the two of them were in
each other’s arms. Her head was pressed against
his chest. He was stroking her hair. Two lovers

on the steps of Sacré-Cœur … what could be
more Parisian? I turned the corner and walked
away.

529/621

far

The next day, Vosque returned.
He lived in the fifth arrondissement, in a quiet
flats and houses not
from the
street of
Panthéon,
the elaborate church that had been
modelled on a similar building in Rome and
where many of the great and good of France were
buried. Hunter had received a full briefing in an
envelope sealed with a scorpion. I guessed it had
been delivered to his hotel room by someone like
Marcus, who had done the same for me in New
York. The two of us went
to a café on the
Champs-Elysées. It might have seemed odd to
discuss this sort of business in a public place but
in fact it was safer to choose somewhere com-
pletely random. We could make sure we weren’t
being followed. And we knew it couldn’t be
bugged.

Vosque provided a very different challenge to
the Commander. He might be easier to reach but

530/621

he probably knew we were coming so there was a
good chance he had taken precautions. He would
carry a gun. He could expect protection from the
French police. As far as they were concerned, he
was one of them, a senior officer and a man to be
respected. If he was gunned down in the street,
there would be an immediate outcry. Ports and
airports would be closed. We would find
ourselves at
the centre of an international
manhunt.

He lived alone. Hunter produced some photo-
graphs of his address. They had been provided by
Scorpia and showed a ground-floor apartment
with glass doors and double-height windows on
the far side of a courtyard shared by two more
flats. Although one of these was empty, the other
was occupied by a young artist, a potential wit-
ness. An archway opened onto the street. There
was no other way in and an armed policeman – a
gendarme – had been stationed in the little room
that had once been the porter’s lodge. To reach
Vosque, we had to get past him.

531/621

In all our discussions, we called Vosque “the
Cop”. As always, it was easier to depersonalize
him. On the Saturday, we watched him leave the
flat and walk to his local supermarket, two streets
away. He was a short, bullish man, in his late
forties. As he walked, he swung his fists and you
could imagine him lashing out at anyone who got
in his way. He was almost bald with a thick
moustache that didn’t quite stretch to the end of
his lip. He was wearing an old-fashioned suit but
no tie. After he had done his shopping, he
stopped at a café for a cigar and a demi-pression
of beer. Nobody had escorted him and I thought
it would be a simple matter to shoot him where
he sat. We could do it without being seen.

But Hunter wasn’t having any of it. “That’s
not what Scorpia wants,” he said. “He has to be
killed in his home.”

“Why?”
“You’ll see.”
I didn’t like the sound of that but I knew better

than to ask anything more.

532/621

Our Paris holiday was over. Even the weather
had changed. On Sunday morning it rained and
the whole city seemed to be sulking, the water
spitting off the pavements and forming puddles
in the roads. This was the day when Vosque was
going to die. If we wanted to find him alone in
his flat, it made sense. Monday to Friday he
would be in his office, which was situated inside
the Interior Ministry. According to his file, most
evenings he went out drinking or ate with friends
in cheap restaurants around the Gare St-Lazare.
Sunday for him was dead time – in more than one
sense.

That morning, Annabelle Finnan,

the artist
who lived next door to Vosque, received a tele-
phone call from the town of Orléans, telling her
that her elderly mother had been run over by a
van and was unlikely to survive. This was untrue
but Annabelle left at once. We were waiting in
the street and saw her flag down a taxi. Then we
moved forward.

533/621

We were both wearing cheap suits, white shirts
and black ties. We were carrying bibles. The dis-
guise had been Hunter’s idea and it was a bril-
liant one. We had come as Jehovah’s Witnesses.
There had been real ones, apparently, working in
the area and nobody would have noticed two
more, following in their wake. The gendarme in
the porter’s lodge saw us and dismissed us in the
same instant. We were the last thing he needed
two Bible-bashers
on a wet Sunday morning,
come to preach to him about
the end of the
world.

“Not here!” the gendarme grunted. “Thank
not

very much, my

friends. We’re

you
interested.”

“But, monsieur…” Hunter began.
“Just move along…”
Hunter was holding his bible at a strange angle
and I saw his hand press down on the spine.
There was a soft hissing sound and the gendarme
jerked backwards and collapsed. The bible must
have been supplied by Gordon Ross, all the way

from Malagosto. It had fired a knock-out dart. I
could see the little tuft sticking out of the man’s
neck.

534/621

“And on the seventh day, he rested,” Hunter
muttered and I recognized the quotation from the
second chapter of Genesis.

The two of us moved into the office. Hunter
had brought rope and tape with him. “Tie him
up,” he said. “We’ll be gone long before he
wakes up but it’s best not to take chances.”

I did as I was told, securely fastening his wrists
and ankles, and using the tape and a balled-up
handkerchief to gag his mouth. After everything
Hunter had told me, I was a little surprised that
he hadn’t simply shot the policeman. Wouldn’t
that have been easier? But perhaps, at the end of
the day and despite everything he had said, he
preferred not to take a life unless it was really
necessary.

With the gendarme hidden away, we walked
across the courtyard, our bibles in our hands. I
thought we would go straight to Vosque’s door

535/621

but instead Hunter steered us over to the artist’s
flat and rang the bell there. It was a nice touch.
She wasn’t in, of course, but if Vosque happened
to be watching out of his window, the fact that
we were patiently waiting there would make us
look completely innocent. We stood outside for a
minute or two, ignoring the thin drizzle that was
slanting down onto the cobblestones. Hunter pre-
tended to slip a note through the letterbox. Then
we went over to Vosque’s place and rang the
bell.

He must have seen us coming and he didn’t
suspect a thing. He was already in a bad mood as
he opened the door, wearing a vest and pants
with a striped dressing gown falling off his
shoulders. He hadn’t shaved yet.

“Get

the hell out of here,” he snarled. “I

haven’t—”

That was as far as he got. Hunter didn’t use an-
other anaesthetic dart. He hit him, very hard, un-
der the chin. It wasn’t a killer blow, although it
could have been. He caught the Cop as he fell

536/621

and dragged him into the apartment. I closed the
door behind us. We were in.

The flat was almost bare. The floor was uncar-
peted, the furniture minimal. There were no pic-
tures on the walls. It was private. Net curtains
hung over the windows and although there was a
glass door leading into a tiny back garden – un-
usual for a Paris property – nobody could see in.
A bedroom led off to one side. There was an
open-plan kitchen, where, from the looks of it,
Vosque hardly ever cooked anything much more
than a boiled egg.

Hunter had manhandled the Cop across the
floor and onto a wooden chair. “Find something
to tie him up with,” he said. “He should have
some ties in the bedroom. If you can’t find any,
use a sheet off the bed. Tear it into strips.”

I was mystified. What were we doing? Our or-
ders were to kill the man, not threaten or inter-
rogate him. Why wasn’t he already dead? But
once again I didn’t argue. Vosque had quite a
collection of ties. I took five of them from his

537/621

wardrobe and used them to bind his arms and
legs, keeping the last one to gag his mouth.
Hunter said nothing while I worked.
I had
already seen that
intense concentration of his
when we were in the jungle but this time there
was something else. I was aware that he had
something in his mind and for some reason it
made me afraid.

He checked that the Cop was secure, then went
over to the sink, filled a glass of water and threw
it in his face. The cop’s eyes flickered open. I
saw the jolt as he returned to consciousness and
the fear as he took in his predicament. He began
to struggle violently, rocking back and forth, as if
there was any chance of him breaking free.
Hunter signalled at him to stop. The Cop swore
and shouted at him but the words were muffled,
incomprehensible beneath the gag. Eventually, he
stopped fighting. He could see it would do no
good.

I didn’t dare speak. I wasn’t even sure what

language I would be expected to use.

Hunter turned to me.
“You want to be an assassin,” he said, speak-
ing in Russian now. “When you were in the
jungle, you told me you killed some of the men
who came after us. I’m not so sure about that. It
was dark and I have a feeling I was the one who
knocked all of them off. But that doesn’t matter.
You said you were ready to kill. I didn’t believe
you. Well, now’s your chance to prove it. I want
you to kill Vosque.”

I looked at him. Then I turned to the Cop. I’m
not sure that the Frenchman had understood what
we were saying. He was silent, gazing straight
ahead as if he was outraged, as if we had no right
to be here.

538/621

“You want me to kill him,” I said in Russian.
“Yes. With this.”
He held out a knife. He had brought it with
him and I stared at it with complete horror. I
couldn’t believe what I was seeing. The knife
was razor-sharp. There could be no doubt of that.
I had never seen anything quite so evil. But it

was tiny. The blade was more like an old-fash-
ioned safety razor. It couldn’t have been more
than four or five centimetres long.

539/621

“That’s crazy,” I said. I was clinging to the
thought that perhaps this was some sort of joke,
although there was no chance of that. Hunter was
deadly serious. “Give me a gun. I’ll shoot him.”

“That’s not what I’m asking, Yassen. This is
meant to be a punishment killing. I want you to
use the knife.”

He had named me in front of the victim. Even
though he was speaking in Russian, there was no
going back.
“Why?”
“Why are you arguing? You know how we

work. Do as you’re told.”

He pressed the knife into my hand. It was ter-
ribly light, barely more than a sliver of sharpened
metal in a plastic handle. And at that moment I
understood the point of all this. If I killed Vosque
with this weapon, it would be slow and it would
be painful. I would feel every cut that I made.

And it might take several cuts. This wasn’t going
to be just a quick stab to the heart. However I did
it, I would end up drenched in the man’s blood.

A punishment killing. For both of us.
Something deep inside me rose to the surface.
I was shocked, disgusted that he could behave
this way. We’d just had five amazing days in Par-
is. In a way, they’d wiped out everything bad that
had happened to me before. He’d been almost
like a brother to me. Certainly, he had been my
friend. And now, suddenly, he was utterly cold.
From the way he was standing there, I could see
that I meant nothing to him. And he was asking
me to do something unspeakable.

540/621

Butchery.
And yet he was right. At the end of the day, it
was a lesson I had to learn … if I was going to do
this work. Not every assassination would take
place from the top of a building or the other side
of a perimeter fence. I had to get my hands dirty.
I examined the Cop. He was struggling again,
his stomach heaving underneath his vest, jerking

541/621

the chair from side to side, whimpering. His
whole face had gone red. He had seen the knife. I
balanced it in my hand, once again feeling the
flimsy weight. Where was I to start? I supposed
the only answer was to cut his throat. Gordon
Ross had even given us a demonstration once,
but he had used a plastic dummy.

“You need to get on with it, Yassen,” Hunter

said. “We haven’t got all day.”

“I can’t.”
I had spoken the words without realizing it.

They had simply slipped out of my mouth.

“Why can’t you?”
“Because…”
I didn’t want to answer. I couldn’t explain.
Vosque might not be a good man. He was cor-
rupt. He took bribes. But he was a man nonethe-
less. Not a paper target. He was right here, in
front of me, terrified. I could see the sweat on his
forehead and I could smell him. I just didn’t have
it in me to take his life … and certainly not with
this hideous, pathetic knife.

542/621

“Are you sure?”
I nodded, not trusting myself to speak.
“All right. Go outside. Wait for me there.”
This time I did what I was told without ques-
tioning. If I had stayed there a minute longer, I’d
have been sick. As I opened the front door I
heard the soft thud of a bullet fired from a si-
lenced pistol and knew that Hunter had taken
care of matters himself. I was still holding the
knife. I couldn’t leave it behind. It was covered
in forensic evidence that might lead the police to
me. I carefully slid it into the top pocket of my
jacket where it nestled, the blade over my heart.

Hunter came out. “Let’s go,” he said. He
didn’t seem angry. He showed no emotion at all.
Walking back across the city, I told him my

decision.

“I’m taking your advice,” I said. “I don’t want
to be an assassin. I’m leaving Paris. I’m not com-
ing back to Rome. I’m going to disappear.”

“I didn’t give you that advice,” Hunter said.

“But I think it’s a good idea.”

“Scorpia will find me.”
“Go back to Russia, Yassen. It’s a huge coun-
try. Russian is your first language and now you
have skills. Find somewhere to hide. Start again.”
“Yes.” I felt a sense of sadness and had to ex-

press it. “I let you down,” I said.

543/621

“No, you didn’t. I’m glad it worked out this
way. The moment I first saw you, I had a feeling
that you weren’t suited to this sort of work and
I’m pleased you’ve proved me right. Don’t be
like me, Yassen. Have a life. Start a family. Keep
away from the shadows. Forget all
this ever
happened.”

We came to a bridge. I took out the knife and
dropped it into the Seine. Then we walked on to-
gether, making our way back to the hotel.

МОЩНОСТЬ ПЛЮС

POWER PLUS

We went to the airport, sitting together in the
back of a taxi with our luggage in the boot.
Hunter was flying to Rome and then to Venice, to
report to Julia Rothman. I was heading for Berlin.
It would have been madness to take a plane to
Moscow or anywhere in Russia. That have
provided Scorpia with a giant arrow pointing in
the right direction to come after me. Berlin was at
the hub of Europe and gave me a host of different
options… I could head west to the Netherlands or
east to Poland. I would be only a few hours from
the Czech Republic. I could travel by train or by
bus. I could buy a car. I could even go on foot.
There were dozens of border crossing points
where I could pass myself off as a student and

where they probably wouldn’t even bother to
check my ID. It was Hunter who had suggested
it. There was no better place from which
to disappear.

546/621

I was aware of all sorts of different feelings
fighting inside me as we drove out through the
shabby and depressing suburbs to the north of
Paris. I still felt that I had let Hunter down, al-
though he had assured me otherwise. He had
been friendly but business-like when we met for
breakfast that morning, keen to be on his way. He
called me Yassen all the time, as if I had been
stripped of my code name, but I was still using
his. And that morning he had run by himself.
Alone in my room, I had really missed our sprint
around the city and felt excluded. It reminded me
of the time when I’d broken my leg, when I was
twelve, and had been forced out of a trip with the
Young Pioneers.

I wondered if I would miss all this luxury: the
five-star hotels, the international travel, buying
clothes in high-class boutiques.
It was very

unlikely that I would be visiting Paris again and
if I did, it certainly wouldn’t have the pleasure
and the excitement of the last week. I had thought
that
turning into
something special. But now it was all over.

I was becoming something,

547/621

I had already begun to consider my future and
had even come to a decision. There were still
parts of my training that I could put to good use.
I had learned languages. My English was excel-
lent. The Countess had shown me how to hold
my own with people much wealthier than me.
And even Sharkovsky, in his own way, had been
helpful. I knew how to iron shirts, polish shoes,
make beds. The answer was obvious. I would
find work in a hotel just like the George V. New
hotels were being built all over Russia and I was
certain I’d be able to get a job in one, starting as
a bellboy or washing dishes in the kitchen and
then working my way up. Moscow was too dan-
gerous for me. It would have to be St Petersburg
or somewhere further afield. But I would be able
to support myself. I had no doubt of it.

548/621

I did not tell Hunter this. I would have been
too ashamed. Anyway, we had already agreed
that we would not discuss my plans. It was better
for both of us if he didn’t know.
I was not sorry. I was relieved.
From the moment I had met Julia Rothman in
Venice, I had been drawn into something deadly
and, deep down, I had worried that I had no place
there. What would my parents have thought of
me becoming a paid killer? It was true that they
had not been entirely innocent themselves. They
had worked in a factory that produced weapons
of death. But they had been forced into it and in a
sense they had spent their whole lives protecting
me from having to do the same. They had fed the
dream of my becoming a university student, a
helicopter pilot … whatever. Anything to get me
out of Estrov. And what of Leo, a boy who had
never hurt anyone in his life? He wouldn’t have
recognized the man I had almost become.

For better or for worse, it was over. That was
what I told myself. I had a great deal of money

with me. Only that morning I had drawn one hun-
dred and fifty thousand euros from my bank ac-
count, knowing that when Scorpia discovered I
had gone they would freeze the money. I had my
freedom. However I looked at it, my situation
was a lot better than it had been three and a half
years ago. I shouldn’t complain.

We arrived at the airport and checked in. As it
happened, my flight was leaving just
thirty
minutes after Hunter’s and we had a bit of time to
kill. So we went through passport control and sat
together in the departure lounge. We did not
speak very much. Hunter was reading a paper-
back book. I had a magazine.

“I fancy a coffee,” Hunter said, suddenly. “Can

I get you one?”

549/621

“No. I’m all right, thanks.”
He got up. “It may take a while. There’s a bit
of a queue. Will you keep an eye on my things?”

“Sure.”
Despite all we had been through, we were like

two strangers … casual acquaintances at best.

550/621

He moved away, disappearing in the direction
of the cafeteria. He hadn’t checked in any lug-
gage and was carrying two bags – a small suit-
case and a canvas holdall. They were both on the
floor and for no good reason I picked up the
holdall and placed it on the empty seat next to
me. As I did so, I noticed that one of the zips was
partially undone. I went back to my magazine.
Then I stopped. Something had caught my eye.
What was it?

Moving the holdall had folded back the can-
vas, causing a side pocket to bulge open. Inside,
there was a wallet, a mobile telephone, Hunter’s
boarding pass, a battery and a pair of sunglasses.
It was the battery that had caught my attention.
The brand was Power Plus. Where had I seen the
name before and why did it mean something to
me? I remembered. A few months ago, when I
was on Malagosto, Gordon Ross had shown us
all a number of gadgets supplied by the different
intelligence services around the world. One of
them had been a Power Plus battery that actually

551/621

concealed a radio transmitter that agents could
use to summon help.

But it was a British gadget, supplied by the
British secret service. What was it doing in
Hunter’s bag?

I looked around me. There was no sign of
Hunter. Quickly, I plucked the battery out and
examined it, still hoping that it was perfectly or-
dinary and that I was making a mistake. I pressed
the positive terminal, the little gold button on the
top. Sure enough, there was a spring underneath.
Pushing it down released a mechanism inside, al-
lowing the battery to separate into two connected
parts. If I gave the whole thing a half-twist, I
would instantly summon British intelligence to
Terminal Two of Charles de Gaulle Airport.

British intelligence…
Horrible thoughts were already going through
my mind. At the same time, something else oc-
curred to me. Hunter had said he was going to get
a coffee. Perhaps I was reading too much into it

but he had left his wallet behind. How was he go-
ing to pay?

I got to my feet and moved away from the
seats, ignoring the rows of waiting passengers,
leaving the luggage behind. I felt light-headed,
disconnected, as if I had been torn out of my own
body. I turned a corner and saw the cafeteria.
There wasn’t a queue at all and Hunter certainly
wasn’t there. He’d lied to me. Where was he? I
looked around and then I saw him. He was some
distance away with his back partly turned to me
but I wasn’t mistaken. It was him. He was talking
on the telephone … an urgent, serious conversa-
tion. I might not be able to read his lips but I
could tell that he didn’t want to be overheard.

552/621

I went back to my seat, afraid that the luggage
would be stolen if I didn’t keep an eye on it – and
how would I explain that? I was still holding the
battery. I had almost forgotten it was in my hand.
I unclicked the terminal and returned it to the
holdall, then put the whole thing back on the
floor. I didn’t zip it up. Hunter would have

553/621

spotted a detail like that. But I pressed the canvas
with my foot so that the side pocket appeared
closed. Then I opened my magazine.

But I didn’t read it.
I knew. Without a shred of doubt. John Rider –
Hunter – was a double agent, a spy sent in by
MI6. Now that I thought about it, it was obvious
and I should have seen it long ago. On that last
night in Malagosto, when we had met in Sefton
Nye’s office, I had been quite certain he hadn’t
followed me in and I had been right. He had ar-
rived before me. He had been there all along.
Nye hadn’t left his door open. Hunter must have
unlocked it moments before I arrived. He had
gone in there for exactly the same reason as me
… to get access to Nye’s files. But in his case, he
had been searching for information about Scorpia
to pass on to his bosses. No wonder he had been
so keen to get me out of there. He hadn’t reported
me to Nye … not because he was protecting me
but because he didn’t want anyone asking ques-
tions about him.

554/621

Now I understood why he hadn’t killed the
young policeman at Vosque’s flat. A real assassin
wouldn’t have thought twice about it but a British
agent couldn’t possibly behave the same way. He
had shot the Commander. There was no doubt
about that. But Gabriel Sweetman had been a
monster, a major drug trafficker, and the British
and American governments would have been de-
lighted to see him executed. What of Vosque
himself? He was a senior French officer, no mat-
ter what his failings. And it suddenly occurred to
me that I only had Hunter’s word for it that he
was dead. I hadn’t actually been in the room
when the shot was fired. Right now, Vosque
could be anywhere. In jail, out of the country …
but alive!

At the same time I saw, with icy clarity, that
John Rider had been sent to do more than spy on
Scorpia. He had also been sent to sabotage them.
He had been deceiving me from the very start.
On the one hand he had been pretending to teach
me. I couldn’t deny that I had learned from him.

555/621

But all the time he had been undermining my
confidence. In the jungle, everything he had told
me about himself was untrue. He hadn’t killed a
man in a pub. He hadn’t been in jail. He had used
the story to gain my sympathy and then he had
twisted it against me, telling me that I wasn’t cut
out to be like him. It was John Rider who had
planted the idea that I should run away.

He had done the same thing in Paris. The way
he had suddenly turned on me when we were in
Vosque’s flat, asking me to do something that
nobody in their right mind would ever do wheth-
er they were being paid or not. He had given me
that hideous little knife. And he had called
Vosque by his real name. Not “the victim”. Not
“the Cop”. He had wanted me to think about
what I was doing so that I wouldn’t be able to do
it. And the result? All the training Scorpia had
given me would have been wasted. They would
have lost their newest recruit.

Of course Scorpia would track me down. Of
course they would have killed me. John Rider

had tried to convince me otherwise but he was
probably on the phone to them even now, warn-
ing them I was about to abscond. Why would he
risk leaving me alive? Scorpia would have
someone waiting for me at Berlin airport. After
all, Berlin had been his idea. A taxi would pull
up. I would get in. And I would never be seen
again.

I was barely breathing. My hands were grip-
ping the magazine so tightly that I was almost
tearing it in half. What hurt most, what filled me
with a black, unrelenting hatred, was the know-
ledge that it had all been fake. It had all been lies.
After everything I had been through, the loss of
everyone I loved, my daily humiliation at the
hands of Vladimir Sharkovsky, the poverty, the
hopelessness, I thought I had finally found a
friend. I had trusted John Rider and I would have
done anything for him. But in a way he was
worse than any of them. I was nothing to him. He
had secretly been laughing at me – all the time.

556/621

I looked up. He was walking towards me.

“Everything OK?” he asked.
“Yes,” I said. “You didn’t get your coffee?”
“The queue was too long. Anyway, they’ve

557/621

just called my flight.”

I glanced at the screen. That, at least, was true.

The flight to Rome was blinking.

“Well, it looks as if it’s goodbye, Yassen. I

wish you luck … wherever you decide to go.”
“Thank you, Hunter. I’ll never forget you.”
We shook hands. My face gave nothing away.
He picked up his cases and I watched him join
the queue and board the flight. He didn’t turn
round again. As soon as he had gone, I took my
own case and left the airport. I didn’t fly to Ber-
lin. Any flight with the passengers’ names listed
on a computer screen would be too dangerous for
me. I took the train back into Paris and joined a
group of students and backpackers on a Magic
Bus to Hamburg. From there, I caught a train to
Hanover with a connection to Moscow. It was a
journey that would take me thirty-six hours but
that didn’t bother me.

I knew exactly what I had to do.

558/621

УБИЙЦА

THE ASSASSIN

I

I had not seen the dacha at Silver Forest for a
very long time. I had thought I would never see it
again.

It had been strange to find myself back at
remembered
Kazansky Station in Moscow.
stepping off the train in my Young Pioneers uni-
form. It seemed like a lifetime ago. There was no
sign of Dima, Roman or Grigory, which was
probably just as well. I have no idea what I
would have said to them if I had seen them. On
the one hand, I would have liked them to know
that I was safe and well. But perhaps it was best
that we did not renew our acquaintance. My
world was very different now.

561/621

It seemed to me that there were now fewer
homeless children than there had been in the
square outside the station. Perhaps the new gov-
ernment was finally getting its act together and
looking after them. It is possible, I suppose, that
they were all in jail. The food stalls had gone too.
I thought of the raspberry ice cream I had de-
voured. Had it really been me that day? Or had it
been Yasha Gregorovich, a boy who had disap-
peared and who would never be spoken about
again?

I travelled on the Metro to Shchukinskaya Sta-
tion and from there I took a trolleybus to the
park. After that, I walked. It was strange that I
had never actually seen the dacha from outside. I
had arrived in the boot of a car. I had left, in the
darkness,
in a helicopter. But I knew exactly
where I was going. All the papers relating to the
planning and construction of Sharkovsky’s home,
along with the necessary licences and permits,
had been lodged, as I suspected, with the Mo-
scow Architecture and City Planning Committee.

562/621

I had visited their offices in Triumfalnaya Square
– curiously they were very close to Dima’s place
off Tverskaya Street – very early in the morning.
Breaking in had presented no problem. They
were not expecting thieves.

Now I understood why Sharkovsky had chosen
to live here. The landscape – flat and green with
its pine forests, lakes and beaches – was very
beautiful. I saw a few riders on horseback. It was
hard to believe that I had been so close to the city
during my three years at the dacha. But here the
noise of the traffic was replaced by soft breezes
and birdsong. There were no tall buildings break-
ing the skyline.

A narrow private road led to the dacha. I fol-
lowed it for a while, then slipped behind the trees
that grew on either side. It was unlikely that
Sharkovsky had planted sensors underneath the
concrete and there was no sign of any cameras,
but I could not be sure. Eventually, the outer wall
came into sight. I recognized the shape of it, the

razor wire and the brickwork even from the
outside.

It was not going to be difficult to break in.
Sharkovsky prided himself on his security net-
work but I had been trained by experts. His men
went through the same procedures, day in and
day out. They acted mechanically, without think-
ing. And how many times had it been drummed
into me on Malagosto? Habit is a weakness. It is
what gets you killed. Certain cars and delivery
trucks always arrived at the dacha at a given
time. I remembered noting them down in my
former life, scribbling in the back of an exercise
book. Madness! It was a gift to the enemy.

563/621

The laundry van arrived shortly after five
o’clock, by which time it was already dark. I
knew it would come. I had lost count of the num-
ber of times I had helped to empty it, carrying
dirty sheets out and fresh linen in. As the driver
approached the main gate, he saw a branch that
seemed to have fallen from a tree, blocking the
way. He stopped the van, got out and moved it.

When he got back in again, he was unaware that
he had an extra passenger. The back door hadn’t
been locked. Why should it have been? It was
only carrying sheets and towels.

The van reached the barrier and stopped.
Again, I knew exactly what would happen. I had
seen it often enough and it was imprinted in my
mind. There were three guards inside the security
hut. One of them was meant to be monitoring the
TV cameras but he was old and lazy and was
more likely to have his head buried in a newspa-
per. The second man would stay on the left-hand
side of the van to check the driver’s ID, while the
third searched underneath the vehicle, using a flat
mirror on wheels. I timed the moment exactly,
then slipped out of the back and hid on the left-
hand side, right next to the security hut, lost in
the shadows. Now the first guard opened the
back and checked inside. He was too late. I had
gone. I heard him rummaging around inside.
Eventually, he emerged.

564/621

“All right,” he called out. “You can move on.”

565/621

It was very kind of him to let me know when it
was safe. I dodged round, still shielded by the
van, and climbed back inside. The driver started
the van and we rolled forward, on our way to the
house.

It was a simple matter to slip out again once
we had stopped. I knew where we would be, next
to the side door that all the servants and delivery
people used. I was careful not to step on the
grass. I remembered where the sensors were posi-
tioned. I was also careful to avoid the CCTV
cameras as I edged forward. Even so, I was as-
tonished to find that the door was not locked.
Sharkovsky was a fool! I would have advised
him to rethink all his security arrangements after
a paid assassin had made it into the house – and
certainly after Arkady Zelin and I had escaped
with him. That made three people who knew his
weaknesses. But then again, he had been in hos-
pital for a very long time. His mind had been on
other things.

566/621

and

unhooked

the

I found myself inside, back in those familiar
corridors. The laundry man had gone ahead and
the housekeeper had gone with him. I passed the
kitchen. Pavel was still there. The chef was bend-
ing over the stove, putting the finishing touches
to the pie that he was planning to serve that even-
ing. I knew I didn’t have to worry about him. He
was slightly deaf and absorbed in his work.
However,
I
reached
to
Sharkovsky’s Lexus. Had I been in charge here, I
would have suggested that all the keys should
themselves be kept locked up somewhere more
safe. But that was not my concern. It seemed
only right that the car that had first brought me
here would also provide my means of escape. It
was bulletproof.
I would be able to smash
through the barrier and nobody would be able to
stop me.

there was something I needed.
out

How easy it all was – and it had been in front
of me all the time! But of course, I had been see-
ing things with very different eyes back then. I

key

was a village boy. I had never heard of Scorpia.
I knew nothing.

567/621

I continued forward, knowing that I would
have to be more careful from this point on. Th-
ings must have changed inside the house. For a
start, the two bodyguards – Josef and Karl –
would have been replaced, one of them buried
and the other fired. Sharkovsky might have a
new, more efficient team around him. But the
hall was silent. Everything was as I remembered
it, right down to the flower display on the central
table. I tiptoed across and slipped through the
door that led down to the basement. This was
where I would wait until dinner had been served,
in the same room where I had been shown the
body of the dead food taster.

I did not climb upstairs again until eleven
o’clock, by which time I imagined everyone
would be in bed. I had been able to make out
some of the sounds coming from above and it
was clear to me that there had been no formal
dinner party that night. The lights were out.

There was nobody in sight. I went straight into
Sharkovsky’s study. I was concerned that
the
Dalmatian might be there but thought it would re-
member me and probably wouldn’t bark. In fact,
there was no sign of it. Perhaps Sharkovsky had
got rid of it. There was a fire burning low in the
hearth and the glow guided me across the room
as I approached the desk. I was looking for
something and found it in the bottom drawer.
Now all that remained was to climb upstairs to
the bedroom at the end of the corridor where
Sharkovsky slept.

But as it turned out, it was not necessary. To
my surprise, the door opened and the lights in the
room were turned on. It was Sharkovsky, on his
own. He did not see me. I was hidden behind the
desk but I watched as he closed the door and,
with difficulty, manoeuvred himself
into the
room.

568/621

He was no longer walking. He was in a wheel-
chair, dressed in a silk dressing gown and pyja-
mas. Either he was now sleeping downstairs or

569/621

he had built himself a lift. He was more gaunt
than I remembered. His head was still shaved, his
eyes dark and vengeful but now they seemed to
sparkle with the memory of pain. His mouth was
twisted downwards in a permanent grimace and
his skin was grey, stretched over the bones of his
face. Even the colours of his tattoo seemed to
have faded. I could just make out the eagle’s
wings on his chest beneath his pyjama top. Every
movement was difficult for him. I guessed that he
had indeed broken his neck when he had fallen.
And although the bullets had not killed him, they
had done catastrophic harm, leaving him a wreck.
The door was shut. We were alone. I had
quickly taken out a pair of wire cutters and used
them but now I stood up, revealing myself. I was
holding the gun, the revolver that he had handed
to me the first time I had come to this room. In
my other hand, there was a box of bullets.

“Yassen Gregorovich!” he exclaimed. His
voice was very weak as if something inside his
throat had been severed. His face showed only

570/621

shock. Even though I was holding a gun, he did
not think himself to be in any danger. “I didn’t
expect
to see you again.” He sneered at me.
“Have you come back for your old job?”

“No,” I said. “That’s not why I’m here.”
He wheeled himself forward, heading for his
side of the desk. I moved away, making room for
him. It was right that it should be this way … as
it had been all those years before.

“What happened to Arkady Zelin?” he asked.
“I don’t know,” I replied.
“They were in it together, weren’t they? He
and the mechanic.” I didn’t say anything so he
went on. “I will find them eventually. I have
people looking for them all over the world.
They’ve been looking for you, too.” He was rasp-
ing and his voice was thick with hatred. He didn’t
need to tell me what they would have done with
me if they’d found me. “Did you help them?” he
asked. “Were you part of the plot?”

“No.”
“But you left with them.”

“I persuaded them to take me.”
“So why have you come back?”
“We have unfinished business. We have to talk

571/621

about Estrov.”

“Estrov?” The name took him by surprise.
“I used to live there.”
“But you said…” He thought back and some-
how he remembered. “You said you came from
Kirsk.”

“My parents, all my friends died. You were

responsible.”

He smiled. It was a horrible, death’s-head
smile with more malevolence in it than I would
have thought possible. “Well, well, well,” he
croaked. “I have to say, I’m surprised. And you
came here for revenge? That’s not very civil of
you, Yassen. I looked after you. I took you into
my house. I fed you and gave you a job. Where’s
your gratitude?”

He had been fiddling around as he spoke,
reaching for something underneath the desk. But
I had already found what he was looking for.

“I’ve disconnected the alarm button,” I told

him. “If you’re calling for help, it won’t come.”

For the first time, he looked uncertain. “What

572/621

do you want?” he hissed.

“Not revenge,” I said. “Completion. We have

to finish the business that started here.”

I placed the gun on the desk in front of him

and spilt out the bullets.

“When you brought me here, you made me
play a game,” I said. “It was a horrible, vicious
thing to do. I was fourteen years old! I cannot
think of any other human being who would do
that to a child. Well, now we are going to play it
again – but this time according to my rules.”

Sharkovsky could only watch, fascinated, as I
picked up the gun, flicked open the cylinder and
placed a bullet inside. I paused, then followed it
with a second bullet, a third, a fourth and a fifth.
Only then did I shut it. I spun the cylinder.

Five bullets. One empty chamber.
The exact reverse of the odds that Sharkovsky

had offered me.

573/621

He had worked it out for himself. “Russian
roulette? You think I’m going to play?” he
snarled. “I’m not going to commit suicide in
front of you, Yassen Gregorovich. You can kill
me if you want to, but otherwise you can go to
hell.”

“That’s exactly where you kept me,” I said. I
was holding the gun, remembering the feel of it. I
could even remember its taste. “I blame you for
everything that has happened to me, Vladimir
Sharkovsky. If it wasn’t for you, I would still be
in my village with my family and friends. But
from the moment you came into my life, I was
sent on a journey. I was given a destiny which I
was unable to avoid.

“I do not want to be a killer. And this is my
last chance … my last chance to avoid exactly
that.” I felt something hot, trickling down the
side of my face. A tear. I did not want to show
weakness in front of him. I did not wipe it away.
“Do you understand what I am saying to you?

574/621

What you want, what Scorpia wants, what every-
one wants … it is not what I want.”

“I don’t know what you’re talking about,”
Sharkovsky said. “I’m tired and I’ve had enough
of this. I’m going to bed.”

“I didn’t come here to kill you,” I said. “I came

here to die.”

chamber.

I raised the gun. Five bullets. One empty

I pressed it against my head.
Sharkovsky stared at me.
I pulled the trigger.
The click was as loud as an explosion would
have been. Against all the odds, I was still alive.
And yet, I had expected it. I had been chosen. My
future lay ahead of me and there was to be no
escape.

“You’re mad!” Sharkovsky whispered.
“I am what you made me,” I said.
I swung the gun round and shot him between
the eyes. The wheelchair was propelled back-
wards, crashing into the wall. Blood splattered

575/621

onto the desk. His hands jerked uselessly, then
went limp.

I heard footsteps in the hallway outside and a
moment later the door crashed open. I had expec-
ted to see the new bodyguards but it was Ivan
Sharkovsky who stood there, wearing a dinner
jacket with a black tie hanging loose around his
neck. He saw his father. Then he saw me.

“Yassen!” he exclaimed in the voice I knew so

I shot him three times. Once in the head, twice

well.

in the heart.

Then I left.

EPILOGUE

THE KILL

King’s Cross, London. Three o’clock in the
morning.

The station was closed and silent. The streets
were almost empty. A few shops were still open
– a kebab restaurant and a minicab office, their
plastic signs garishly bright. But there were no
customers.

Inside his hotel room, Yassen Gregorovich
took out the memory stick and turned off the
computer. He had read enough. He was still sit-
ting at the desk. The tray with the dirty dishes
from his supper was on the carpet beside him. He
looked at
then yawned. He
needed to sleep. He stripped off his clothes and
left them, folded, on a chair. Then he showered,
dried himself and went to bed. He was asleep al-
most immediately. He did not dream. Since that
final night in the Silver Forest, he never dreamed.

the blank screen,

578/621

He woke again at exactly seven o’clock. It was
a Saturday and the street was quieter than it had
been the day before. The sun was shining but he
could see from the flag on the building opposite
that
there was a certain amount of wind. He
quickly scanned the pavements looking for any-
thing out of place, anyone who shouldn’t be
there. Everything seemed normal. He showered
again, then shaved and got dressed. The com-
puter was where he had left it on the table and he
powered it up so that he could check for any new
messages. He knew that the order he had re-
ceived the day before would still be active.
Scorpia were not in the habit of changing their
minds. The screen told him that he had received a
single email and he opened it. As usual, it had
been encrypted and sent to an account that could
not be traced to him. He read it, considering its
contents. He planned the day ahead.

He went downstairs and had breakfast – tea,
yoghurt, fresh fruit. There was a gym at the hotel
but it was too small and ill-equipped to be worth

579/621

using, and anyway, he wouldn’t have felt safe in
the confined space, down in the basement. It was
almost as bad as the lift. After breakfast, he re-
turned to his room, checking the door handle one
last time, packed the few items he had brought
with him and left.

“Goodbye, Mr Reddy. I hope you enjoyed

your stay.”

“Thank you.”
The girl at the checkout desk was Romanian,
quite attractive. Yassen had no girlfriend, of
course. Any such relationship was out of the
question but for a brief moment he felt a twinge
of regret. He thought of Colette, the girl who had
died in Argentina. At once, he was annoyed with
himself. He shouldn’t have spent so much time
reading the diary.

He paid the bill using a credit card connected
to the same gymnasium where he supposedly
worked. He took the receipt but later on he would
burn it. A receipt was the beginning of a paper
trail. It was the last thing he needed.

As he left the hotel, he noticed a man reading a

newspaper. The headlines screamed out at him:

580/621

SHOOTING AT SCIENCE MUSEUM

PRIME MINISTER INVOLVED
“NO ONE HURT,” SAYS MI6

It was interesting that there was no mention of
either Herod Sayle or Alex Rider. Nobody would
want to suggest that a billionaire and major bene-
factor in the UK had been involved in an assas-
sination attempt. As for Alex Rider, the secret
service would have kept him well away from the
press. They had recruited a fourteen-year-old
schoolboy. That was one story that would never
see the light of day.

Yassen passed through the revolving doors and
walked round to the car park. He had hired a car,
a Renault Clio, charging it to the same company
as the hotel room. He put his things in the boot,
then drove west, all the way across London and
over to a street in Chelsea, not far from the river.

582/621

He parked close to a handsome terraced house
with ivy growing up the wall, a small, square
garden at the front and a wrought-iron gate.

So this was where Alex Rider lived. Yassen
assumed he would be somewhere inside, perhaps
still asleep. There would be no school today, of
course, but even if there had been it was unlikely
that Alex would have attended. Only the day be-
fore, he had hijacked a cargo plane in Cornwall
and forced the pilot to fly him to London. He had
parachuted into the Science Museum in South
Kensington and shot Herod Sayle, wounding him
seconds before he could press the button that
would activate the Stormbreaker computers.
There had been a furore. Just as the newspapers
had reported, the Prime Minister had been
present. The police, the SAS and MI6 had been
involved. Yassen tried to imagine the scene. It
must have been chaos.

He sat behind the wheel, still watching the

house.

Yes. Alex Rider most certainly deserved a few

583/621

extra hours in bed.

About an hour later, the front door opened and
a young woman came out. She was wearing jeans
and a loose-fitting jersey with red hair tumbling
down to her shoulders. Yassen had never met her
but he knew who she was: Jack Starbright,
Alex’s housekeeper. It must have been rather odd
the two of them living together but there was no
one else. John Rider had died a long time ago.
There had been an uncle, Ian Rider, who had be-
come Alex’s guardian, but he was dead too.
Yassen knew because he had been personally re-
sponsible for that killing. How had he become so
tangled up with this family? Would they never
leave him alone?

Jack Starbright was carrying a straw bag. She
was going shopping. While she was away,
Yassen could slip into the house and tiptoe up-
stairs. If Alex Rider was in bed asleep, it would
all be over very quickly. It would be easier for
him that way. He simply wouldn’t wake up.

But Yassen had already decided against

it.
There were too many uncertainties. He hadn’t yet
checked out the layout of the house. He didn’t
know if there were alarms. The housekeeper
could return at any moment. At the same time, he
thought about the email that he had received. It
presented him with a new priority. The Storm-
breaker business wasn’t quite over. Dealing with
Alex Rider now might compromise what
lay
ahead. He reached down and turned the engine
back on. It was useful to know where Alex lived,
to acquaint himself with the territory. He could
return at another time.

584/621

He drove off.
Yassen spent the rest of the day doing very
little. It was one of the stranger aspects of his
work. He’d had to learn how to fill long gaps of
inactivity, effectively how to kill time. He had of-
ten found himself waiting in hotel rooms for days
or even weeks. The secret was to put yourself in
neutral gear, to keep yourself alert but without
wasting physical or mental energy. There were

meditation techniques that he had been taught
when he was on Malagosto. He used them now.

Later that afternoon, he drove into the Batter-
sea Heliport, situated between Battersea and
Wandsworth bridges. It is the only place in Lon-
don where businessmen can arrive or leave by
helicopter. The machine that he had ordered was
waiting for him – a red and yellow Colibri
EC-120B, which he liked because it was so re-
markably silent. He had received his helicopter
pilot’s licence five years ago, finally realizing a
dream which he had had as a child, although he
had never, after all, worked in air-sea rescue. It
was just another skill that was useful for his line
of work. He kept moving. He kept adapting. That
was how he survived.

585/621

He had telephoned ahead. The helicopter was
fuelled and ready. All the necessary clearances
had been arranged. Taking his case with him,
Yassen climbed into the cockpit and a few
minutes later he was airborne, following the
River Thames east towards the City. The email

586/621

that he had received had specified a time and a
place. He saw that place ahead of him, an office
building thirty storeys high with a flat roof and a
radio mast. There was a cross, painted bright red,
signalling where he should land.

Herod Sayle was there, waiting for him.
It was Sayle who had sent him the email that
morning and who had arranged all this, paying an
extra one million euros into the special account
that Yassen had in Geneva. The police were
looking for the billionaire all over Britain. The
airports and main railway stations were being
watched. There were extra policemen all around
the coast. Sayle had paid Yassen to fly him out of
the country. They would land outside Paris,
where a private jet was waiting for him. From
there he would be flown to a hideout in South
America.

Hovering in the air, still some distance away,
Yassen recognized Sayle … even though the man
was dressed almost comically in an ill-fitting car-
digan and corduroy trousers, very different from

587/621

the suits he usually favoured, and presumably
some sort of disguise. But the dark skin, the bald
head and the smallness of his stature were unmis-
takable. Sayle liked to wear a gold signet ring
and there it was, flashing in the afternoon sun. He
was holding a gun. And he was not alone.
Yassen’s eyes narrowed. There was a boy stand-
ing opposite him, close to the edge of the roof. It
was Alex Rider! The gun was being aimed at
him. Sayle was talking and it was obvious to
Yassen that he was about to fire. He had some-
how managed to capture the boy and had brought
him here – to kill him before he left. Yassen
wondered how Alex had allowed himself to fall
into Sayle’s hands.

He came to a decision. It wasn’t easy, sliding
open the cockpit door, reaching into his case and
keeping control of the Colibri, all at same time –
but he managed it. He took out the gun he had
brought with him. It was a Glock long-range
shooting pistol, accurate at up to two hundred
metres. In fact, Yassen was much nearer than

588/621

that, which was just as well. This wasn’t going to
be easy.

It was time to make the kill.
He aimed carefully, the gun in one hand, the
cyclic rod in the other. The helicopter was steady,
hanging in the air. He gently squeezed the trigger
and fired twice. Even before the bullets had
reached their target, he knew he hadn’t missed.

Herod Sayle twisted and fell. He hit the ground
and lay quite still, unaware of the pool of blood
spreading around him.

The boy didn’t move. Yassen admired him for
that. If Alex had tried to run, he would have re-
ceived a bullet in the back before he had taken
two paces. Much better to talk. The two of them
had unfinished business.

Yassen landed the helicopter as quickly as he
could, never once taking his eyes off Alex. The
gun that had just killed Sayle was still resting in
his lap. The landing skid touched the roof of the
building and settled. Yassen switched off the en-
gine and got out.

589/621

The two of them stood face to face.
It was extraordinary how similar he was to his
father. Alex’s hair was longer and it was lighter
in colour, reminding Yassen of the woman he
had glimpsed with John Rider at Sacré-Cœur. He
had the same brown eyes and there was
something about the way he stood with exactly
the same composure and self-confidence. He had
just seen a man die but he wasn’t afraid. It
seemed remarkable – and strangely appropriate –
that he was only fourteen,
the same age that
Yassen had been when those other helicopters
had come to his village.

Alex’s parents were dead, just like his. They
had been killed by a bomb, planted in an aero-
plane on the orders of Scorpia. Yassen was glad
that he’d had nothing to do with it. He had never
told Julia Rothman what he knew about John
Rider. By the time he returned to Venice, Hunter
had already left, travelling with one of the other
recruits. What was the point of sentencing him to
death? Yassen had already decided. Whoever he

might be and whatever he might have done, there
could be no denying that Hunter had saved his
life in the Peruvian rainforest and that had cre-
ated a debt of honour. Yassen would simply blot
out the knowledge in his mind. He would pretend
he hadn’t seen the Power Plus battery, that it had
never happened. And what if Rider caused more
damage to Scorpia? It didn’t matter. Yassen
owed no loyalty to them or to anyone else. In this
new life of his, he would owe loyalty to no one.

He would still have his revenge. John Rider
had betrayed him and in return, Yassen would
become the most efficient, the most cold-blooded
assassin in the world. Vladimir
and Ivan
Sharkovsky had been just the start. Since then,
there had been … how many of them? A hun-
dred? Almost certainly more. And every time
Yassen had walked away from another victim, he
had proved that John Rider was wrong. He had
become exactly what he was meant to be.

590/621

And here was John Rider’s son. It was some-
the two of them should

how inevitable that

591/621

finally meet. How much did Alex know about the
past, Yassen wondered. Did he have any idea
what his father had been?

“You’re Yassen Gregorovich,” Alex said.
Yassen nodded.
“Why did you kill him?” Alex glanced at the

body of Herod Sayle.

“Those were my instructions,” Yassen replied,
but in fact he was lying. Scorpia had not ordered
him to kill Sayle. He had made an instant de-
cision, acting on his own initiative. He knew,
however, that they would be pleased. Sayle had
become an embarrassment. He had failed. It was
better that he was dealt with once and for all.

“What about me?” Alex asked.
Yassen paused before replying. “I have no in-

structions concerning you.”

It was another lie. The message on his com-
puter could not have been clearer. But Yassen
knew that he could not kill Alex Rider. The bond
of honour that had once existed with the father
extended to the son. Very briefly, he thought

592/621

back to Paris. It was hard to explain but there was
a sort of parallel. He saw it now and it was why,
at the last minute, he had diverted his aim. How
he had been to John Rider when the two of them
were together, in some way Alex Rider was to
him now. There would be no more killing today.
“You killed Ian Rider,” Alex said. “He was my

uncle.”

Ian Rider. John Rider’s younger brother. It was
true – Yassen had shot him as he had tried to es-
cape from Herod Sayle’s compound in Cornwall.
That was how this had all begun. It was the reas-
on Alex Rider was here.

Yassen shrugged. “I kill a lot of people.”
“One day I’ll kill you.”
“A lot of people have tried,” Yassen said. “Be-
lieve me, it would be better if we didn’t meet
again. Go back to school. Go back to your life.
And the next time they ask you, say no. Killing is
for grown-ups and you’re still a child.”

It was the same advice that Alex’s father had
once given him. But Yassen was offering it for a
very different reason.

593/621

The two of them had come from different
worlds but they had so much in common. At the
same age, they had lost everything that mattered
to them. They had found themselves alone. And
they had both been chosen. In Alex’s case it had
been the British secret service, MI6 Special
Operations, who had come calling. For Yassen it
had been Scorpia. Had either of them ever had
any choice?

It might still not be too late. Yassen thought
about his life, the diary he had read the night be-
fore. If only someone could have reached out and
taken hold of him … before he got on the train to
Moscow, before he broke into the flat near Gorky
Park, before he reached Malagosto. For him,
there had been nobody. But for Alex Rider, it
didn’t need to be the same.

He had given Alex a chance.

594/621

It was enough. There was nothing more to say.
Yassen turned round and walked back to the heli-
copter. Alex didn’t move. Yassen flicked on the
engine, waited until the blades had reached full
velocity and took off a second time. At the last
moment, he raised a hand in a gesture of
farewell. Alex did the same.

The two of them looked at each other, both of
them trapped in different ways, on opposite sides
of the glass.

Finally Yassen pulled at the controls and the
helicopter lifted off the ground. He would have to
report to Scorpia, explain to them why he had
done what he had done. Would they kill him be-
cause of it? Yassen didn’t think so. He was too
valuable to them. They would already have an-
other name in another envelope waiting for him.
Someone whose turn had come to die.

He couldn’t stop himself. High above the
Thames with the sun setting over the water, he
spun the cockpit round and glanced back one last

time. But now the roof was empty apart from the
body stretched out beside the red cross.

595/621

Alex Rider had gone.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I had a great deal of help with the Russian sec-
tions of the book. Olga Smirnova reluctantly took
me through some of her childhood memories and
translated the chapter headings. Simon Johnson
and Anne Cleminson introduced me to their
friends and family, including Olga Cleminson,
who cooked me a Russian lunch and helped cre-
ate the village of Estrov. In Moscow, Konstantin
Chernozatonsky showed me the buildings where

597/621

Yassen might have lived and first drew my atten-
tion to the fortochniks. Sian Valvis took me
round the city and told me of her experiences
working for an oligarch. Ilia Tchelikidi also
shared his school memories with me from his
home in London. Finally, Alex Kteniadakis gave
me the technical
information for Yassen’s
computer.

A great many of the details in this book are
therefore based on fact but it’s fair to say that the
overall picture may not be entirely accurate. So
much changed between 1995 and 2000 – the ap-
proximate setting for the story – that I’ve been
forced to use a certain amount of dramatic
licence.

My

Zampi

assistant Olivia

organized
everything right up to the photocopying and
binding. I owe a very special debt of thanks to
my son Cassian, who was the first to read the
manuscript and who made some enormously
helpful criticisms, and to both Sarah Handley at

598/621

Walker Books and Harry F at HMP Ashfield who
both suggested the title. I am, as ever, grateful to
Jane Winterbotham, my squeamish but incisive
editor at Walker Books. Finally, my wife – Jill
Green – lived through the writing of this without
hiring a contract killer to have me eliminated.
She must have been tempted.

Collect all the Alex Rider books:

STORMBREAKER

Alex Rider – you’re never too young to die…

POINT BLANC

600/621

High in the Alps, death waits for Alex Rider…

SKELETON KEY

Sharks. Assassins. Nuclear bombs. Alex

Rider’s in deep water.

EAGLE STRIKE

Alex Rider has 90 minutes to save the world.

601/621

SCORPIA

Once stung, twice as deadly. Alex Rider wants

revenge.

ARK ANGEL

He’s back – and this time there are no limits.

602/621

SNAKEHEAD

Alex Rider bites back…

CROCODILE TEARS

Alex Rider – in the jaws of death…

603/621

SCORPIA RISING

One bullet. One life.
The end starts here.

The Alex Rider graphic novels:

605/621

www.alexrider.com

www.facebook.com/alexrideruk
www.youtube.com/alexriderinsider

WELCOME TO THE DARK SIDE OF

ANTHONY HOROWITZ

BOOK ONE
He always knew he was different.
First there were the dreams.
Then the deaths began.

607/621

BOOK TWO
It began with Raven’s Gate.
But it’s not over yet.
Once again the enemy is stirring.

BOOK THREE
Darkness covers the earth.
The Old Ones have returned.

The battle must begin.

608/621

BOOK FOUR
An ancient evil is unleashed.
Five have the power to defeat it.
But one of them has been taken.

BOOK FIVE

Five Gatekeepers.
One chance to save mankind.
Chaos beckons. Oblivion awaits.

609/621

OTHER BOOKS BY ANTHONY HOROWITZ

London is dirty, distant and dangerous … but
that’s where orphan Tom Falconer is heading.
And he’s got a whole assortment of vicious crim-
inals hot on his heels.

Tom is helpless and alone until he meets Moll
Cutpurse,
pickpocket.

thirteen-year-old

a

612/621

Together the two of them find themselves chased
across the city by the murderous Ratsey. But it’s
only on the first night of a new play – The Devil
and his Boy – that Tom realizes the fate of the
Queen and indeed the entire country rests in his
hands.

He could see it in the wicked glimmer in
her eyes, in the half-turned corner of her
mouth. And it was so strong, so horrible
that he shivered. She was evil.
“Wickedly funny.”
Daily Telegraph

“A hoot… Anthony Horowitz has cre-
ated a scary and unmissable old hag.”
Daily Mail

613/621

Be careful what you wish for…
Tad Spencer has everything a boy could
want – incredibly rich parents, and a
whole summer ahead to enjoy however
he pleases. Until one evening he makes
the huge mistake of wishing he was
someone else.

THE DIAMOND BROTHERS SERIES

Meet Tim Diamond, the world’s worst
private detective, and his quick-think-
ing wisecracking younger brother
Nick!

“His first job was to find some rich lady’s pedi-
gree Siamese cat. He managed to run it over on
the way to see her. The second job was a divorce
case – which you may think is run-of-the-mill un-
til I tell you that the clients were perfectly hap-
pily married until he came along… There hadn’t
been a third case.”

Collect all 4 hilarious Diamond Brothers

615/621

investigations!

Titles by Anthony Horowitz

The Alex Rider series:

Stormbreaker
Point Blanc
Skeleton Key
Eagle Strike

Scorpia
Ark Angel
Snakehead

Crocodile Tears
Scorpia Rising

The Power of Five (Book One): Raven’s Gate

The Power of Five (Book Two): Evil Star
The Power of Five (Book Three): Nightrise
The Power of Five (Book Four): Necropolis
The Power of Five (Book Five): Oblivion

The Devil and His Boy

Granny

Groosham Grange

Return to Groosham Grange

The Switch

More Bloody Horowitz

617/621

The Diamond Brothers books:

The Falcon’s Malteser

Public Enemy Number Two

South by South East
Four of Diamonds

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters,

places and incidents are either the product of the
author’s imagination or, if real, used fictitiously.
All statements, activities, stunts, descriptions, in-

formation and material of any other kind con-
tained herein are included for entertainment pur-
poses only and should not be relied on for accur-

acy or replicated as they may result in injury.

First published 2013 by Walker Books Ltd

87 Vauxhall Walk, London SE11 5HJ

Text © 2013 Stormbreaker Productions Ltd

Cover design by Walker Books Ltd

Trademarks Alex Rider™; Boy with Torch Lo-

go™ © 2013 Stormbreaker Productions Ltd

The right of Anthony Horowitz to be identified as
author of this work has been asserted by him in
accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Pat-

ents Act 1988

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be
reproduced, transmitted or stored in an informa-

tion retrieval system in any form or by any

620/621

means, graphic, electronic or mechanical, includ-
ing photocopying, taping and recording, without

prior written permission from the publisher.

British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data:

a catalogue record for this book

is available from the British Library

ISBN 978-1-4063-5085-2 (ePub)

www.walker.co.uk

@Created by PDF to ePub

