Table of Contents

IN THE DARK

MATCH POINT

BLOOD AND STRAWBERRIES

THE CRIBBER

TWO WEEKS IN THE SUN

NOT SO SPECIAL AGENTS

DEATH OF A SALESMAN

BROTHERHOOD SQUARE

THE DEVIL?S CHIMNEY

THE CRUSHER

THE HOUSE OF SLAVES

HEARTBEAT

THE NUCLEAR DUSTBIN

SECURITY NIGHTMARE

THE END OF THE WORLD

AFTER ALEX

3/390

IN THE DARK

Night came quickly to Skeleton Key.

The sun hovered briefly on the horizon, then
dipped below. At once, the clouds rolled
in—first red, then mauve, silver, green and
black as if all the colours in the world were
being sucked into a vast melting pot. A single
frigate bird soared over the mangroves, its
own colours lost in the chaos behind it. The
air was close. Rain hung waiting. There was
going to be a storm.

The single engine Cessna Skyhawk SP circled
twice before coming in to land. It was the
sort of plane that would barely have been no-
ticed, flying in this part of the world. That
was why it had been chosen. If anyone had
been curious enough to check the registra-
tion number printed under the wing, they
would have learned that this plane belonged
to a photographic
company based in

5/390
Jamaica. This was not true. There was no
company and it was already too dark to take
photographs.

There were three men in the aircraft. They
were all dark skinned, wearing faded jeans
and loose, open-neck shirts. The pilot had
long black hair, deep brown eyes and a thin
scar running down the side of his face. He
had met his two passengers only that after-
noon. They had introduced themselves as
Carlo and Marc but he doubted these were
their real names. He knew that their journey
had begun a long time ago, somewhere in
Eastern Europe. He knew that this short
flight was the last leg. He knew what they
were carrying. Already, he knew too much.

The pilot glanced down at the multifunction
display in the control panel. The illuminated
computer screen was warning him of the
storm that was closing in. That didn?t worry
him. Low clouds and rain gave him cover.
The authorities were less vigilant during a

6/390
storm. Even so, he was nervous. He had
flown into Cuba many times, but never here.
And tonight he would have preferred to have
been going almost anywhere else.

Cayo Esqueleto. Skeleton Key.

There it was, stretching out before him,
thirty-eight kilometres long and nine kilo-
metres across at its widest point. The sea
around it, which had been an extraordinary,
brilliant blue until a few minutes ago, had
suddenly darkened, as
someone had
thrown a switch. Over to the west, he could
make out
the twinkling lights of Puerto
Madre, the island?s second biggest town.
The main airport was further north, outside
the capital of Santiago. But
that wasn?t
where he was heading.

if

He pressed on the joystick and the plane
veered to the right, circling over the forests
and mangrove swamps that surrounded the

7/390
old, abandoned airport at the bottom end of
the island.

The Cessna had been equipped with a
thermal intensifier, similar to the sort used
in American spy satellites. He flicked a
switch and glanced at the display. A few
birds appeared as tiny pinpricks of red.
There were more dots pulsating in the
swamp. Crocodiles or perhaps manatees.

And a single dot about twenty metres from
the runway. He turned to speak to the man
called Carlo but there was no need. Carlo was
already leaning over his shoulder, staring at
the screen.

Carlo nodded. There was only one man wait-
ing for them, as agreed. Anyone hiding with-
in a few hundred metres of the airstrip would
have shown up. It was safe to land.

The pilot looked out of the window and there
was the runway. It was a rough strip of land
on the edge of the coast, hacked out of the

8/390
jungle and running parallel with the sea. The
pilot would have missed it altogether in the
dying light but for the two lines of electric
bulbs burning at ground level, outlining the
path for the plane.

The Cessna swooped out of the sky. At the
last minute it was buffeted about by a sud-
den, damp squall that had been sent to try
the pilot?s nerve. The pilot didn?t blink and
a moment later the wheels hit the ground
and the plane was bouncing and shuddering
along, dead centre between the two rows of
lights. He was grateful they were there. The
mangroves—thick bushes, half-floating on
pools of stagnant water—came almost to the
edge of the runway. Go even a couple of
metres in the wrong direction and a wheel
might snag. It would be enough to destroy
the plane.

The pilot flicked switches. The engine died
and the twin-bladed propellers slowed down
and came to a halt. He looked out of the

9/390
window. There was a jeep parked next to one
of the buildings and it was here that the
single man—the red dot on his screen—was
waiting. He turned to his passengers.

“He?s there.”

The older of the two men nodded. Carlo was
about thirty years old with black, curly hair.
He hadn?t shaved. Stubble the colour of ci-
garette ash clung to his jaw. He turned to the
other passenger. “Marc? Are you ready?”

The man who called himself Marc could have
been Carlo?s younger brother. He was barely
twenty-five and although he was trying not
to show it, he was scared. There was sweat
on the side of his face, glowing green as it
caught the light from the control panel. He
reached behind him and took out a gun, a
German-built 10mm Glock automatic. He
checked it was loaded, then slipped it into
the waistband at the back of his trousers, un-
der his shirt.

10/390

“I?m ready,” he said.

“There is only him. There are two of us.”
Carlo tried to reassure Marc. Or perhaps he
was trying to reassure himself. “We?re both
armed. There is nothing he can do.”

“Then let?s go.”

Carlo turned to the pilot. “Have the plane
ready,” he commanded. “When we walk
back, I will give you a sign.” He raised a
hand, one finger and thumb forming an 0.
“That is the signal that our business has been
successfully concluded. Start the engine at
that time. We don?t want to stay here one
second longer than we have to.”

They got out of the plane. There was a thin
layer of gravel on the runway which
crunched beneath their combat boots as they
walked round the side to the cargo door.
They could feel the sullen heat in the air, the
heaviness of
the night sky. The island
seemed to be holding its breath.

11/390
Carlo reached up and opened a door. In the
back of the plane was a black container,
about one metre by two. With difficulty, he
and Marc lowered it to the ground.

The younger man looked up. The lights on
the landing strip dazzled him but he could
just make out a figure standing still as a
statue beside the jeep, waiting for them to
approach. He hadn?t moved since the plane
had landed. “Why doesn?t he come to us?”
he asked.

Carlo spat and said nothing.

There were two handles, one on either side of
the container. The two men carried it
between them, walking awkwardly, bending
over their load. It took them a long time to
reach the jeep.

But at last they were there. For a second
time, they set the box down.

12/390
Carlo straightened up, rubbing his palms on
the side of his jeans. “Good evening, Gener-
al,” he said. He was speaking in English. This
was not his native language. Nor was it the
general?s. But it was the only language they
had in common.

“Good evening.” The general did not bother
with names that he knew would be false
anyway.

“You had no trouble getting here?”

“No trouble at all, General.”

“You have it?”

“One kilogram of weapons grade uranium.
Sufficient to build a bomb powerful enough
to destroy a city. I would be interested to
know which city you have in mind.”

General Alexei Sarov took a step forward and
the lights from the runway illuminated him.
He was not a big man, yet
there was
something about him that radiated power

13/390
and control. He still carried with him his
years in the army. They could be seen in his
close-cut, iron grey hair, his watchful pale
blue eyes, his almost emotionless face. They
were there in the very way he carried him-
self. He was perfectly poised; relaxed and
wary at the same time. General Sarov was
sixty-two years old but looked twenty years
younger. He was dressed in a dark suit, a
white stmt and a narrow dark blue tie. In the
damp heat of the evening, his clothes should
have been creased.

He should have been sweating. But to look at
him, he could have just stepped out of an air-
conditioned room.

He crouched down beside the container, at
the same time producing a small device from
his pocket. It looked like a car cigarette light-
er with a dial attached. He found a socket in
the side of the box and plugged the device in.
Briefly, he examined the dial. He nodded. It
was satisfactory.

14/390
“You have the rest of the money?” Carlo
asked.

“Of course.” The general straightened up and
walked over to the jeep. Carlo and Marc
tensed themselves—this was the moment
when he might produce a gun. But when he
turned round he was holding a black leather
attaché-case. He flicked the locks and
opened it. The case was filled with bank-
notes: one hundred dollar bills neatly ban-
ded together in packets of fifty. One hundred
packets in all. A total of half a million dollars.
More money than Carlo had ever seen in his
life.

But still not enough.

“We?ve had a problem,” Carlo said.

“Yes?” Sarov did not sound surprised.

Marc could feel the sweat as it drew a comma
down the side of his neck. A mosquito was
whining in his ear but he resisted the urge to

15/390
slap it. This was what he had been waiting
for. He was standing a few steps away, his
hands hanging limply by his side. Slowly, he
allowed them to creep behind him, closer to
the concealed gun. He glanced at the ruined
buildings. One might once have been a con-
trol tower. The other looked like a customs
shed. Both of them were broken and empty,
the brickwork crumbling,
the windows
smashed. Could there be someone hiding
there? No. The thermal
intensifier would
have shown them. They were alone.

“The cost of the uranium.” Carlo shrugged.
“Our friend in Miami sends his apologies.
But there are new security systems all over
the world. Smuggling—particularly this sort
of thing—has become much more difficult.
And that?s meant extra expense.”

“How much extra expense?”

“A quarter of a million dollars.”

“That?s unfortunate.”

16/390
“Unfortunate for you. General. You?re the
one who has to pay.”

Sarov considered. “We had an agreement.”
he said.

There was a long silence. Marc?s fingers
reached out behind his back, closing around
the Glock automatic. But then Sarov nodded.
“I will have to raise the money,” he said.

“You can have it transferred to the same ac-
count that we used before,” Carlo said. “But I
have to warn you, General. If the money
hasn?t arrived in three days, the American
intelligence services will be told what has
happened here tonight … what you?ve just
received. You may think you are safe here on
this island. I can assure you, you won?t be
safe any more.”

“You?re threatening me,” Sarov muttered.
There was something at once calm and
deadly in the way he spoke.

17/390

“It?s nothing personal,” Carlo said.

Marc produced a cloth bag. He unfolded it,
then tipped the money out of the case and in-
to the bag. The case might contain a radio
transmitter. It might contain a small bomb.
He left it behind.

“Good night, General,” Carlo said.

“Good night.” Sarov smiled. “I hope you en-
joy the flight.”

The two men walked away. Marc could feel
the money, the bundles pressing through the
cloth against the side of his leg. “The man?s a
fool,” he whispered, returning to his own
language.

“An old man. Why were we afraid?”

“Let?s just get out of here,” Carlo said. He
was thinking about what the general had
said: I hope you enjoy the flight. Had he been
smiling when he said that?

18/390
He made the agreed signal, pressing his fin-
ger and thumb together. At once the
Cessna?s engine started up.

General Sarov was still watching them. He
hadn?t moved, but now his hand reached
once again into his jacket pocket. His fingers
closed around the radio transmitter waiting
there. He had wondered if it would be neces-
sary to kill the two men and their pilot. Per-
sonally, he would have preferred not to, even
as an insurance policy. But their demands
had made it necessary. He should have
known they would be greedy. Given the sort
of people they were, it was almost inevitable.

Back in the plane, the two men were strap-
ping themselves into their seats while the pi-
lot prepared for take-off. Carlo heard the en-
gine rev up as the plane slowly began to turn.
Far away, there was a low rumble of thunder.
Now he wished that they had turned the
plane round immediately after they had

19/390
landed. It would have saved some precious
seconds and he was eager to be away.

Back in the air.

I hope you enjoy the flight.

There had been no emotion whatsoever in
the general?s voice. He could have meant
what he was saying. But Carlo guessed he
would have spoken exactly the same way if
he had been passing a sentence of death.

Next to him, Marc was already counting the
money, running his hands through the piles
of notes.

jeep. Would

He looked back at the ruined buildings, at
the waiting
try
something? What sort of resources did he
have on the island? But as the plane turned
in a tight circle, nothing moved. The general
stayed where he was. There was nobody else
in sight.

Sarov

The runway lights went out.

20/390

“What the…?” The pilot swore viciously.

Marc stopped his counting. Carlo understood
at once what was happening. “He?s turned
the lights off,” he said. “He wants to keep us
here. Can you take off without them?”

The plane had turned a half-circle so that it
was facing the way it had come. The pilot
stared out
through the cockpit window,
straining to see into the night. It was very
dark now, but there was an ugly, unnatural
light pulsating in the sky. He nodded. “It
won?t be easy, but…”

The lights came back on again.

There they were, stretching into the distance,
an arrow that pointed to freedom and an ex-
tra profit of a quarter of a million dollars.
The pilot relaxed. “It must have been the
storm,” he said. “It disrupted the electricity
supply.”

21/390
“Just get us out of here,” Carlo muttered.
“The sooner we?re in the air, the happier I?ll
be.”

The pilot nodded. “Whatever you say.” He
pressed down on the controls and the Cessna
lumbered forward, picking up speed quickly.
The runway lights blurred, guiding him
forward.

Carlo settled back into his seat. Marc was
watching out of the window.

And then, seconds before the wheels left the
ground, the plane suddenly lurched. The
whole world twisted as a giant,
invisible
hand seized hold of it and wrenched it side-
ways. The Cessna had been travelling at one
hundred and fifty kilometres per hour. It
came to a grinding halt
in a matter of
seconds, the deceleration throwing all three
men forward in their seats. If they hadn?t
been belted in, they would have been hurled
out of the front window—or what was left of

22/390
the shattered glass. At the same time there
was a series of ear-shattering crashes as
something whipped into the fuselage. One of
the wings had dipped down and the propeller
was torn off, spinning into the night. Sud-
denly the plane was still, resting tilted on one
side.

For a moment, nobody moved inside the
cabin. The plane?s engines rattled and
stopped. Then Marc pulled himself up in his
seat. “What happened?” he screamed. “What
happened?” He had bitten his tongue. Blood
trickled down his chin. The bag was still
open and money had spilled into his lap.

“I don?t understand…” The pilot was too
dazed to speak.

“You left the runway!” Carlo?s face was twis-
ted with shock and anger.

“I didn?t!”

23/390
“There!” Marc was pointing at something
and Carlo followed his quivering finger. The
door on the underside of the plane had
buckled. Black water was seeping in under-
neath, forming a pool around their feet.

There was another rumble of thunder, closer
this time.

“He did this!” the pilot said.

“What did he do?” Carlo demanded.

“He moved the runway!”

It had been a simple trick. As the plane had
turned, Sarov had switched off the lights on
the runway using the radio transmitter in his
pocket. For a moment, the pilot had been
disoriented, lost in the darkness. Then the
plane had finished its turn and the lights had
come back on. But what he hadn?t known,
what he wouldn?t have been able to see, was
that it was a second set of lights that had
been activated—and that these ran off at an

24/390
angle, leaving the safety of the runway and
continuing over the surface of the swamp.

“He led us into the mangroves,” the pilot
said.

Now Carlo understood what had happened
to the plane. The moment its wheels touched
the water, its fate had been sealed. Without
solid ground beneath it, the plane had be-
come bogged down and toppled over. Swamp
water was even now pouring in as they
slowly
surface. The
branches of the mangrove trees that had al-
most torn the plane apart surrounded them,
bars of a living prison.

sank beneath the

“What are we going to do?” Marc demanded,
and suddenly he was sounding like a child.
“We?re going to drown!”

“We can get out!” Carlo had suffered whip-
lash injuries in the collision. He moved one
arm painfully, unfastening his seat-belt.

25/390
“We shouldn?t have tried to cheat him!”
Marc cried. “You knew what he was. You
were told—

“Shut up!” Carlo had a gun of his own. He
pulled it out of the holster underneath his
shirt and balanced it on his knee. “We?ll get
out of here and we?ll deal with him. And
then somehow we?ll find a way off this damn
island.”

“There?s something…” the pilot began.

Something had moved outside.

“What is it?” Marc whispered.

“Shhh!” Carlo half stood up, his body filling
the cramped space of the cabin. The plane
tilted again, settling further into the swamp.
He lost his balance then steadied himself. He
reached out, past the pilot, as if he was going
to climb out of the broken front window.

Something huge and horrible lunged towards
him, blocking out what little light there was

26/390
in the night sky. Carlo screamed as it threw
itself head first into the plane and onto him.
There was a glint of white and a dreadful
grunting sound. The other men were scream-
ing too.

General Sarov stood watching. It wasn?t
raining yet but the water was heavy in the
air. There was a flash of
lightning that
seemed to cross the sky almost in slow mo-
tion, relishing its journey.

In that moment, he saw the Cessna on its
side, half-buried in the swamp. There were
now half a dozen crocodiles swarming all
over it. The largest of them had dived head
first into the cockpit.

Only its tail was visible, thrashing about as it
gorged itself.

He reached down and lifted up the black
container. Although it had taken two men to
carry it to him, it seemed to weigh nothing in
his hands. He placed it in the jeep, then

27/390
stood back. He allowed himself the rare priv-
ilege of a smile and felt it, briefly, on his lips.
Tomorrow, when the crocodiles had finished
their meal, he would send in his field work-
ers—the macheteros—to recover the bank-
notes. Not that the money was important. He
was the owner of one kilogram of weapons
grade uranium. As Carlo had said, he now
had the power to destroy a small city.

But Sarov had no intention of destroying a
city.

His target was the entire world.

MATCH POINT

Alex caught the ball on the top of his chest,
bounced it forward and kicked it into the
back of the net. It was then that he noticed
the man with the large white dog. It was a
warm, bright Friday afternoon, the weather
caught between late spring and early sum-
mer. This was only a practise match but Alex
took the game seriously. Mr. Wiseman, who
taught PE, had selected him for the first
team and he was looking forward to playing
against other schools in west London.

Unfortunately, his school, Brookland, didn?t
have its own playing fields. This was a public
field and anyone could walk past. And they
could bring their dogs. Alex recognized the
man at once and his heart sank. At the same
time he was angry. How could he have the
nerve to come here, into the school arena, in

29/390
the middle of a game? Weren?t these people
ever going to leave him alone?

The man?s name was Crawley. With his thin-
ning hair, blotchy face and old-fashioned
clothes, he looked like a junior army officer
or perhaps a teacher in a second-rate private
school. But Alex knew the truth. Crawley be-
longed to MI6. Not exactly a spy, but
someone who was very much a part of that
world. Crawley was an office manager in one
of the country?s most secret offices. He did
the paperwork, made the arrangements, set
up the meetings. When someone died with a
knife in their back or a bullet in their chest, it
would be Crawley who had signed on the
dotted line.

As Alex ran back to the centre line, Crawley
walked over to a bench, dragging the dog
behind.

The animal didn?t seem to want to walk. It
didn?t want to be there at all. Crawley sat

30/390
down. He was still sitting there ten minutes
later when the final whistle blew and the
game came to an end.

Alex considered for a moment. Then he
picked up his jersey and went over to him.

Crawley seemed surprised to see him. “Alex!”
he exclaimed. “What a surprise! I haven?t
seen you since … well, since you got back
from France.”

It had only been four weeks since MI6 had
forced Alex to investigate a school for the
super-rich in south-east France. Using a false
name, he had become a student at the Point
Blanc Academy only to find himself taken
prisoner by the mad headmaster, Dr Grief.
He had been chased down a mountain, shot
at and almost dissected alive in a biology
class. Alex had never wanted to be a spy and
the whole business had convinced him he
was right. Crawley was the last person he
wanted to see.

31/390
But the MI6 man was beaming. “Are you on
the school team? Is this where you play? I?m
surprised I haven?t noticed you before. Bark-
er and I often walk here.”

“Barker?”

“The dog.” Crawley reached out and patted
it. “He?s a Dalmatian.”

“I thought Dalmatians had spots.”

“Not this one.” Crawley hesitated. “Actually,
Alex, it?s a bit of luck running into you. I
wonder if I could have a word with you?”

Alex shook his head. “Forget it, Mr. Crawley.
I told you the last time. I?m not interested in
MI6.

I?m a schoolboy. I?m not a spy.”

“Absolutely!” Crawley agreed. “This has got
nothing to do with the … um … company. No,
no, no.” He looked almost embarrassed. “The
thing is, what I wanted to ask you was … how

would you like a front
Wimbledon?”

32/390
row seat at

The question took Alex completely by sur-
prise.
“Wimbledon? You mean … the
tennis?”

“That?s right.” Crawley smiled. “The All Eng-
land Tennis Club. I?m on the committee.”

“And you?re offering me a ticket?”

“Yes.”

“What?s the catch?”

“There is no catch, Alex. Not really. But… let
me explain.” Alex was aware that the other
players were getting ready to leave. The
school day was almost over. He listened as
Crawley went on. “The thing is, you see, a
week ago we had a break-in. Security at the
club is always tight but someone managed to
climb over the wall and get into the Millenni-
um Building through a forced window.”

“What?s the Millennium Building?”

33/390
“It?s where the players have their changing
rooms. It?s also got a gym, a restaurant, a
couple of lounges and so on. We have closed
circuit television cameras but the intruder
disabled the system—along with the main
alarm. It was a thoroughly professional job.
We?d never have known anyone had been
there except for a stroke of luck. One of our
night guards saw the man leaving. He was
Chinese, in his early twenties—”

“The guard?”

“The intruder. Dressed from head to foot in
black with some sort of rucksack on his back.
The guard alerted the police and we had the
whole place
searched. The Millennium
Building, the courts, the cafes … everywhere.
It took three days. There are no terrorist cells
active in London at the moment, thank good-
ness, but there was always a chance that
some lunatic might have planted a bomb. We
had the anti-terrorist squad in. Sniffer dogs.
Nothing! Whoever it was had vanished into

34/390
thin air and it seemed he?d left nothing
behind.

“Now, here?s the strange thing, Alex. He
didn?t leave anything, but nor did he take
anything. In fact, nothing seems to have
been touched. As I say, if the guard hadn?t
seen this chap, we?d never have known he
had been there. What do you make of that?”

Alex shrugged. “Maybe the guard disturbed
him before he could get his hands on
whatever it was he wanted.”

“No. He was already leaving when he was
seen.”

“Could the guard have imagined it?”

“We examined the cameras. The film is time-
coded and we discovered that they had defin-
itely been out of action for two hours. From
midnight until two in the morning.”

“Then what do you think, Mr. Crawley? Why
are you telling me this?”

35/390
Crawley sighed and stretched his legs. He
was wearing suede shoes, shabby and down
at heel.

The dog had fallen asleep. “My belief is that
somebody is intending to sabotage Wimble-
don this year,” he said. Alex was about to in-
terrupt but Crawley held up a hand. “I know
it sounds ridiculous and I have to admit, the
other committee members don?t believe me.
On the other hand, they don?t have my in-
stincts. They don?t work in the same busi-
ness as me. But think about it, Alex. There
had to be a reason for such a carefully
planned and executed break-in. But there is
no reason. Something?s wrong.”

“Why would anyone want
Wimbledon?”

to sabotage

“I don?t know. But you have to remember,
the Wimbledon tennis fortnight is a huge
business.

36/390
There are millions of pounds at stake. Prize
money alone adds up to eight and a half mil-
lion. And then there are television rights,
merchandising rights, corporate sponsor-
ship… We get VIPs flying in from all over the
planet—everyone from film stars to presid-
ents—and tickets for the men?s final have
been known to change hands for literally
thousands of pounds. It?s not just a game.
It?s a world event, and if anything happened
… well, it doesn?t bear thinking about.”

Crawley obviously had been thinking about
it. He looked tired. The worry was deep in
his eyes.

Alex thought for a moment. “You want me to
look around.” He smiled. “I?ve never been to
Wimbledon. I?ve only ever seen it on TV. I?d
love a ticket for Centre Court. But I don?t see
how a one-day visit would actually help.”

“Exactly, Alex. But a one-day visit isn?t quite
what I had in mind.”

37/390

“Go on.”

“Well, you see, I was wondering if you would
consider becoming a ballboy.”

“You?re not serious?”

“Why not? You can stay there for the whole
fortnight. You?ll have a wonderful time and
you?ll be right in the middle of things. You?ll
see some great matches. And I?ll be able to
relax a little, knowing you?re there. If any-
thing is going on, there?s a good chance you
might spot it. Then you can call me and I?ll
take care of it.” He nodded. It was obvious
that he had managed to persuade himself, if
not Alex. “It?s not as if this is dangerous or
anything. I mean … it?s Wimbledon.

There?ll be plenty of other boys and girls
there. What d?you think?”

“Don?t you have enough security people
already?”

38/390
“Of course we have a security company.
They?re easy to see—which makes them easy
to avoid.

But you?d be invisible, Alex. That?s the
whole point.”

“Alex…?”

It was Mr. Wiseman who had called out to
him. The teacher was waiting for him. All the
other players had left now, apart from two or
three boys
amongst
themselves.

the ball

kicking

“I?ll just be a minute, sir,” Alex called back.

The teacher hesitated. It was rather strange,
one of the boys talking to this man in his old-
fashioned blazer and striped tie. But on the
other hand, this was Alex Rider and the
whole school knew there was something odd
about him. He had been away from school
twice recently, both times without any prop-
er explanation, and the last time he had

39/390
turned up again, the whole science block had
been destroyed in a mysterious fire. Mr.
Wiseman decided to ignore the situation.
Alex could look after himself and he would
doubtless turn up later. He hoped.

“Don?t be too long!” he said.

He walked off and Alex found himself left on
his own with Crawley.

He considered what he had just been told.
Part of him mistrusted Crawley. Was it just a
coincidence, his coming upon Alex on a play-
ing field in the middle of a game? Unlikely.
In the world of MI6, where everything was
planned and calculated, there were no coin-
cidences. It was one of the reasons why Alex
hated it. They had used him twice now, and
both times they hadn?t really cared if he had
lived or died, as long as he was useful to
them. Crawley was part of that world and in
his heart Alex disliked him as much as the
rest of it.

40/390
But at the same time, he told himself, he
might be reading too much into this. Crawley
wasn?t asking him to infiltrate a foreign em-
bassy or parachute into Iraq or anything re-
motely dangerous.

He was being offered two weeks at Wimble-
don. It was as simple as that. A chance to
watch some tennis and—if he was un-
lucky—spot someone trying to get
their
hands on the club silver.

What could possibly go wrong?

“All right, Mr. Crawley,” he said. “I don?t see
why not.”

“That?s wonderful, Alex. I?ll make the ar-
rangements. Come on, Barker!”

Alex glanced at the dog and noticed that it
had just woken up. It was staring at him with
pink, bloodshot eyes. Warning him? Did the
dog know something he didn?t?

41/390
But then Crawley jerked on the leash and be-
fore the dog could give away any of its mas-
ter?s secrets, it was quickly pulled away.

Six weeks later, Alex found himself on Centre
Court, dressed in the dark green and mauve
colours of the All England Tennis Club. What
must surely be the final game in this qualify-
ing round was about to begin. One of the two
players sitting just centimetres away from
him would go forward to the next round with
a chance of winning the half a million
pounds prize money that went with the win-
ner?s trophy. The other would be on the next
bus home. It was only now, as he knelt be-
side the net and waited for the serve, that
Alex really understood the power of Wimble-
don and why it had won its place on the
world calendar. There was simply no com-
petition like it.

He was surrounded by the great bulk of the
stadium, with thousands and thousands of
spectators rising ever higher until
they

42/390
disappeared into the shadows at the very top.
It was hard to make out any of the faces.
There were too many of them and they
seemed too far away. But he felt the thrill of
the crowd as the players walked to their ends
of the court, the perfectly striped grass seem-
ing to glow beneath their feet. There was a
clatter of applause, echoing upwards, and
then a sudden stillness. Photographers hung,
vulture-like, over huge telephoto lenses
while beneath them,
in green-covered
bunkers, television cameras swung round to
take in the first serve. The players faced each
other: two men whose whole lives had led up
to this moment and whose future in the
game would be decided in the next few
minutes. It was all so very English—the
grass, the strawberries, the straw hats. And
yet it was still bloody, a gladiatorial contest
like no other. “Quiet please, ladies and gen-
tlemen…” The umpire?s voice rang out
through the various speakers and then the

43/390
first player served. Jacques Lefevre was
French, twenty-two years old and new to the
tournament. Nobody had expected him to
get this far. He was playing a German, Jamie
Blitz, one of the favourites in this year?s
competition. But
it was Blitz who was
losing—

five games to two. Alex
two sets down,
watched him as he waited, balancing on the
balls of his feet. Lefevre served. The ball
thundered close to the centre line. An ace.

“Fifteen love.”

Alex was close enough to see defeat in the
German?s eyes. This was the cruelty of the
game; the psychology of it. Lose your mental
edge and you could lose everything. That was
what had happened to Blitz now. Alex could
almost smell it in his sweat. As he walked to
the other side of the court to face the next
serve, his whole body looked heavy, as if it
was taking all his strength just to keep

44/390
himself there. He lost the next point and the
one after. Alex sprinted across the court,
snatched up a ball and just had time to roll it
up to the ballboy at left base one. Not that it
would be needed. It looked as if there would
be only one more serve in the game.

And sure enough, Lefevre managed a final
ace, falling to his knees, fists clenched in tri-
umph. It was a pose seen hundreds of times
before on the courts of Wimbledon and the
audience duly rose to its feet, applauding.
But
it hadn?t been a good match. Blitz
should have won. Certainly
the game
shouldn?t have ended in three straight sets.
He had been terribly off form and the young
Frenchman had walked all over him.

Alex collected the last of the balls and sent
them rolling up to the far corner. He stood to
attention while the players shook hands, first
with each other, then with the umpire. Blitz
walked towards him and started packing up
his sports bag. Alex studied his face. The

45/390
German looked dazed, as if he couldn?t quite
believe he had lost. Then he picked up his
things and walked away.

He gave one last salute to the audience and
walked off the court. Lefevre was still signing
autographs for the front row. Blitz had
already been forgotten.

“It was a really bad game,” Alex said. “I
don?t know what was wrong with Blitz. He
seemed to be sleepwalking half the time.”

It was an hour later and Alex was sitting at a
table in the Complex, the set of rooms under-
neath the umpire?s office at the corner of
Number One Court where the two hundred
boys and girls who work throughout the
tournament have their meals, get changed
and relax. He was having a drink with two
other ballboys and a ballgirl. He had become
good friends with the girl in the last couple of
weeks—so much so that she?d invited him to
join her and her family when they went down

46/390
to Cornwall after Wimbledon finished. She
was dark-haired, with bright blue eyes and
freckles. She was also a fast runner and very
fit. She went to a convent school in Wimble-
don and her father was a journalist working
in business and current affairs, but there was
nothing remotely serious about her. She
loved jokes, the ruder the better, and Alex
was sure that her laughter could be heard as
far away as Court Nineteen. Her name was
Sabina Pleasure.

“It?s too bad,” Sabina said. “But I like Le-
fevre. He?s cute. And he?s only a bit older
than me.”

“Seven years,” Alex reminded her.

“That?s nothing these days. Anyway, I?ll be
back on Centre Court tomorrow. It?s going
to be hard to keep my eye on the game.”

Alex smiled. He really liked Sabina, even if
she did seem to have a fixation with older
men. He was glad now that he had accepted

47/390
Crawley?s offer. “Just make sure you keep
your hands on the right balls,” he said.

“Rider!” The voice cut through the general
chat in the cafeteria and a small, tough-look-
ing man came striding out of a side office.
This was Wally Walfor, the ex-RAF sergeant
responsible for the ballboys and girls.

“Yes, sir?” Alex had spent four weeks train-
ing with Walfor and he had decided that the
man was less of a monster than he pretended
to be.

“I need someone for standby. Do you mind?”

“No, sir. That?s fine.” Alex drained his drink
and stood up. He was glad that Sabina
looked sorry to see him go.

Standby involved waiting outside the um-
pire?s office in case he was needed on one of
the courts or anywhere inside the grounds.
In fact, Alex would enjoy sitting outside in
the sun, watching the crowds. He took his

48/390
tray back to the counter and was about to
leave when he noticed something that made
him stop and think.

There was a security guard talking on a pub-
lic telephone in the corner of the room.
There was nothing strange about that. There
were always guards posted on the entrance
to the Complex and they occasionally slipped
down for a glass of water, or perhaps to use
the toilet. The guard was talking quickly and
excitedly, his eyes shining, as if he was
passing on important news. It was im-
possible to hear what he was saying in the
general hubbub of the cafeteria, but even so
Alex sidled a little closer in the hope of pick-
ing up a few words. And that was when he
noticed the tattoo. With so many ballboys
and girls in the room and with the cooks
busy behind the counter, the temperature
had risen. The guard had taken off his jacket.
He was wearing a short-sleeved shirt. And
there, on his arm, just where the material

49/390
ended, was a large red circle. Alex had never
seen anything quite like it. A plain, undecor-
ated circle with no writing, no sign of a pic-
ture. What could it mean?

The guard suddenly turned and saw Alex
looking at him. It had happened very quickly
and Alex was annoyed with himself for not
taking more care. The guard didn?t stop talk-
ing but he shifted his body so that the arm
with the tattoo was away from Alex?s view.
At the same time, he covered the tattoo with
his free hand. Alex smiled at him and ges-
tured, as if he was waiting for the phone. The
guard muttered a few more words and hung
up. Then he put his jacket back on and
moved away. Alex waited until he had gone
back upstairs, then followed him. The guard
had disappeared. Alex took his place on the
bench outside the umpire?s office and
considered.

A telephone conversation in a crowded cafet-
eria. It shouldn?t have meant anything. But

50/390
the strange thing was, Alex had seen the
guard a short while before, about an hour be-
fore the Blitz/Lefevre game had begun. Alex
had been sent over to the Millennium Build-
ing to deliver a racquet to one of the other
competitors and had been directed to the
players? lounge. Climbing the staircase that
swept up from the main reception, he had
found himself in a large, open area with tele-
vision monitors on one side and computer
terminals on the other, and bright red and
blue sofas in between. He knew he was priv-
ileged to be there. This was a private place.
Venus Williams was sitting on one of the so-
fas. Tim Henman was watching a game on
TV. And there was Jamie Blitz himself, get-
ting a plastic cup of iced mineral water from
the dispenser against the far wall.

The guard had also been there. Alex had no-
ticed him standing rather awkwardly near
the stairs.

51/390
He was watching Blitz, but at the same time
he was using a mobile phone. At least, that
was what it looked like. But Alex had thought
at the time that there was something strange
about him.

Although the mobile was at his ear, he
wasn?t actually talking. All his attention was
on Blitz.

Alex had watched as Blitz drank his water
and walked away. The guard had walked off
a few seconds later.

What had he been doing inside the Millenni-
um building? That was the first question
Alex asked himself now as he sat in the sun-
shine, listening to the thwack of distant ten-
nis balls and the applause of an unseen
crowd. And there was something else, more
puzzling. If the guard had a mobile phone,
and if that phone had been working just a
few hours ago, why had he needed to make a
call from the public telephone in the corner

52/390
of the Complex? Of course, his battery could
have gone down. But even so, why use that
particular phone? There were telephones all
over the club, up on the surface. Could it be
that he didn?t want to be seen? And why did
he have a red circle tattooed on his arm? He
hadn?t wanted that to be seen. Alex was cer-
tain he had tried to cover it up. And there
was something else. Maybe it was just coin-
cidence, but the guard, just like the man who
had broken into the All England Tennis Club
to begin with, was Chinese.

BLOOD
STRAWBERRIES

AND

Alex didn?t make a conscious decision to fol-
low the guard, but over the next few days he
seemed drawn to him almost as if by acci-
dent. He spotted him twice more; once
searching handbags at gate five and again
giving directions to a couple of spectators.

Unfortunately,
it was impossible to keep
track of him all the time. That was the one
flaw in Crawley?s plan. Alex?s job as a ball-
boy kept him on Centre Court throughout
much of the day.

The ballboys and girls worked a rotation sys-
tem, two hours on, two hours off. At best, he
could only be a part-time spy. And when he
was actually on court, he quickly forgot the
guard, the telephone and the entire business

54/390
of the break-in as he found himself absorbed
by the drama of the game.

But two days after Blitz had left Wimbledon,
Alex found himself once again shadowing the
guard. It was about half an hour before after-
noon play was due to begin and Alex was
about to report into the Complex when he
saw him entering the Millennium Building
again. That was strange in itself. The build-
ing had its own security staff. The public
couldn?t get past the reception desk without
a pass. So what was he doing inside? Alex
glanced at his watch. If he was late, Walfor
would yell at him and possibly even move
him to one of the less interesting perimeter
courts. But there was still time. And he had
to admit, his curiosity was aroused.

He went into the Millennium Building. As
usual, nobody questioned him. His ballboy
uniform was enough. He climbed the stairs,
passed through the players? lounge and into
the restaurant at the other side. The guard

55/390
was there, ahead of him. Once again he had
his mobile phone in his hand. But he wasn?t
making a call. He was simply standing,
watching the players and the journalists as
they finished their lunch.

The dining room was large and modern, with
a long buffet for hot food and a central area
with salads, cold drinks and fruit. There
must have been about a hundred people eat-
ing at the tables and Alex recognized one or
two famous faces among them. He glanced at
the guard. He was standing in a corner, try-
ing not to be noticed. At the same time, his
attention seemed to be fixed on a table next
to one of the windows. Alex followed the dir-
ection of his gaze. There were two men sit-
ting at the table. One was wearing a jacket
and tie. The other was in a tracksuit. Alex
didn?t know the first man but the second
was Owen Bryant, another world-class play-
er, an American. He would be playing later
that afternoon.

56/390
The other man could have been his manager,
or perhaps his agent. The two of them were
talking, quietly,
intensely. The manager
spoke and Bryant laughed. Alex moved fur-
ther into the restaurant, keeping close to the
wall. He wanted to see what the guard was
going to do, but he didn?t want to be seen.
He was glad that the restaurant was fairly
crowded. There were enough people moving
about to screen him.

Bryant stood up. Alex saw the guard?s eyes
narrow. Now the mobile phone was on its
way to his ear. But he hadn?t dialled a num-
ber. Bryant went over to a water dispenser
and pulled a cup out of the plastic cylinder.
The guard pressed a button on his phone.
Bryant helped himself to some water. Alex
watched as a bubble of air mushroomed up
to the surface inside the plastic tank. The
tennis player carried the water back to the
table and sat down. The manager said
something.

Bryant drank his water. And that was it.

57/390

Alex had seen the whole thing.

But what had he seen?

He had no time to answer the question. The
guard was already moving, heading for the
exit. Alex came to a decision. The main door
was between himself and the guard and now
he made for it too, keeping his head low as if
he wasn?t looking where he was going. He
timed it perfectly. Just as the guard reached
the door, Alex crashed into him. At the same
moment, he swung an arm carelessly, knock-
ing the guard?s hand. The mobile phone fell
to the floor.

“Oh—I?m sorry,” Alex said. Before the guard
could stop him, he had leant down and
picked up the phone. He weighed it in his
hand for a moment before passing it back.
“Here you are,” he said.

58/390
The guard said nothing. For a moment his
eyes were locked into Alex?s and Alex found
himself being inspected by two very black
pupils that had no life at all. The man?s skin
was pale and pockmarked, with a sheen of
sweat across his upper lip. There was no ex-
pression anywhere on his face. Alex felt the
telephone being wrenched out of his hand
and then the guard had gone, the door
swinging shut behind him.

Alex?s hand was still in mid-air. He looked
down at his palm. He was worried that he
had given himself away, but at least he had
learned something from the exchange. The
mobile phone was a fake. It was too light.
There was nothing on the screen. And it had
no recognizable logo: Nokia, Panasonic, Vir-
gin … nothing.

He turned back to the two men at the table.
Bryant had finished his water and crumpled
the plastic cup in his hand. He was shaking
hands with his friend, about to leave.

59/390

The water…

Alex had had an idea that was completely ab-
surd and yet made some sort of sense out of
what he had seen. He walked back across the
restaurant and crouched down beside the
dispenser. He had seen the same machines
all over the tennis club. He took a cup and
used its rim to press the tap underneath the
tank. Water, filtered and chilled, ran into the
cup. He could feel it, ice cold against his
palm.

“What the hell do you think you?re doing?”

Alex looked up to see a red-faced man in a
Wimbledon blazer towering over him. It was
the first unfriendly face he?d seen since he
had arrived. “I was just getting some water,”
he explained.

“I can see that! That?s obvious. I mean, what
are you doing in this restaurant? This is re-
served for players, officials and press.”

the

and if

60/390
“I know that,” Alex said. He forced himself
not to lose his temper. He had no right to be
official—whoever he
here
was—complained, he might well
lose his
place as a ballboy. “I?m sorry, sir.” he said. “I
brought a racquet over for Mr. Bryant. I de-
livered it just now. But I was thirsty, so I
stopped to get a drink.”

The official softened. Alex?s story sounded
perfectly reasonable. And he had enjoyed be-
ing addressed as “sir”. He nodded. “All right.
But I don?t want to see you in here again.”
He reached out a hand and took the plastic
cup. “Now on your way.”

Alex arrived back at the Complex about ten
minutes before play began. Walfor glowered
at him but said nothing. That afternoon,
Owen Bryant lost his match against Jacques
Lefevre, the same unknown Frenchman who
had so unexpectedly beaten Jamie Blitz two
days before. The final score was 6-4, 6-7,4-6,
2-6. Although Bryant had won the first game,

61/390
his play had steadily deteriorated throughout
the afternoon. It was another surprising res-
ult. Like Blitz, Bryant had been a favourite to
win.

Twenty minutes later, Alex was back in the
basement restaurant, sitting with Sabina,
who was drinking a Coke Lite.

“My mum and dad are here today,” she was
saying. “I managed to get them tickets and in
return they?ve promised to get me a new
surfboard. Have you ever surfed, Alex?”

“What?” Alex was miles away.

“I was talking about Cornwall. Surfing…”

“Yes, I?ve surfed.” Alex had learned with his
uncle, Ian Rider. The spy whose death had so
abruptly changed Alex?s life. The two of
them had spent a week together in San
Diego, California. That had been years ago.
Years that sometimes felt like centuries.

62/390
“Is there something wrong with your drink?”
Sabina asked.

Alex realized he was holding his Coke in
front of him, balancing it in his hand, staring
at it. But he was thinking about water.

“No, it?s fine…” he began.

And then, out of the corner of his eye, he saw
the guard. He had come back downstairs into
the Complex. Once again he was using the
telephone in the corner. Alex saw him put in
a coin and dial a number.

“I?ll be right back,” he said.

He got up and made his way over to the
phone.

The guard was standing with his back to him.
This time he might be able to get close
enough to hear what was being said, “…will
be completely successful.” The guard was
talking in English but with a thick accent. He
still had his back to Alex. There was a pause.

63/390
Then: “I?m going to meet him now. Yes …
straight away. He?ll give it to me and I?ll
bring it to you.” Another pause.

Alex got the feeling that the conversation was
coming to an end. He took a few steps back.
“I have to go,” the guard said. “Bye.” He put
the receiver down and walked “Alex…?” Sa-
bina called to him. She was on her own, sit-
ting where he had left her. He realized she
must have been watching what he did. He
raised a hand and waved to her. He would
have to find some way to explain all this
later.

The guard didn?t climb back up to the sur-
face. Instead he took a door which led to a
long corridor, stretching into the distance.
Alex opened the door and followed.

The All England Tennis Club covers a huge
area. On the surface it looks a bit like a
theme park, though one whose only theme is
tennis. Thousands of people stream along

64/390
paths and covered walkways, an uninterrup-
ted flow of brilliant white shirts, sunglasses
and straw hats. As well as the courts, there
are tearooms and cafes, restaurants, shops,
hospitality tents, ticket booths and security
points.

But there is a second, less well-known world
underneath all this. The entire club is con-
nected by an underground maze of corridors,
tunnels and roads, some big enough to drive
a car through. If it?s easy to get lost above
ground, it?s even easier to lose yourself be-
low. There are very few signs and there?s
nobody standing at the comer to offer you in-
formation. This is the world of the cooks and
the waiters, the refuse collectors and the de-
livery men. Somehow they find their way
around, coming up in the daylight exactly
where they are needed before disappearing
again.

The corridor in which Alex found himself
was called the Royal Route and connected

65/390
the Millennium Building with Court Number
One, allowing the players to make their way
to the game without being seen. It was clean
and empty, with a bright blue carpet. The
guard was about twenty metres ahead of him
and it felt eerie to be so suddenly alone.
There were just the two of them there. Above
them, on the surface, there would be people
everywhere, milling about in the sunlight.
Alex was grateful
for the carpet, which
muffled the sound of his feet. It seemed that
the guard was in a hurry. So far he hadn?t
stopped or turned round. The guard reached
a wooden door marked RESTRICTED.
Without stopping, he went through. Alex
paused for a moment, then followed. Now he
found himself in an altogether grimier envir-
onment, a cement corridor with yellow in-
dustrial markings and fat ventilation pipes
overhead. The air smelled of oil and garbage,
and Alex knew that he had arrived at the so-
called Buggy Route, a supply lane that forms

66/390
a great circle underneath the club. A couple
of
teenagers in green aprons and jeans
walked past him, pushing two plastic bins. A
waitress went the other way, carrying a tray
of dirty plates.

There was no sign of the guard and for a mo-
ment Alex thought he?d lost him. But then
he saw a figure disappearing behind a series
of translucent plastic strips that hung from
the ceiling to the floor. He could just make
out the man?s uniform on the other side of
the barrier. He hurried forward and went
through. Alex realized two things at the same
moment. He no longer had any idea where
he was—and he was there on his own.

He was
in an underground chamber,
banana-shaped, curving round, with con-
crete pillars supporting the roof. It looked
like an underground carpark and there were
indeed three or four cars parked in bays next
to the raised walkway where he was standing
now. But most of the space was taken up by

67/390
trash. There were empty cardboard boxes,
wooden pallets, a rusting cement mixer, bits
of old fencing and broken down coffee vend-
ing machines, thrown out and left to rot on
the damp cement floor. The air smelled bad
and Alex could hear a constant whine, like an
electric saw, coming from a garbage com-
pactor just out of his sight. And yet the area
was also used for the storage of food and
drink. There were beer barrels, hundreds of
bottles of fizzy drinks, gas cylinders and,
clustered together, eight or nine massive
white boxes—refrigerators, each one carrying
the label RAWLINGS REFRIGERATION.

Alex looked up at the roof. It was slanting
upwards and the shape reminded him of
something.

Of course! The raked seating around Court
Number One! That was where he was—in the
loading bay beneath the tennis court. This
was the underbelly of Wimbledon all right.
This was where all the supplies arrived and

68/390
where all the trash Left. And right now, ten
thousand people were sitting just a few
metres above his head, enjoying the game,
unaware that everything they consumed
throughout the day began and ended here.

But where was the guard? Why had he come
here and who was he going to meet? Alex
crept forward carefully, once again feeling
very alone. He was on a raised platform with
the single word DANGER repeated in yellow
letters along its edge. He didn?t need to be
told. He came to a flight of steps and went
down, moving into the main body of the
chamber, on the same level as the refrigerat-
ors. He walked past a stack of gas cylinders,
pressurized carbon dioxide. He had no idea
what they were for. Half the things down
here seemed to have been dumped for no
good reason.

He was fairly sure now that the guard had
gone. Why would he want to meet anyone
down here?

69/390
For the first time since he had left the Com-
plex, Alex played back the telephone conver-
sation in his mind.

I?m going to meet him now. Yes … straight
away. He?ll give it to me…

It sounded ridiculous, fake, like something
out of a bad film. Even as Alex realized this
and knew that he had been tricked, he heard
the screaming sound, saw the dark shape
rushing out of the shadows. He was in the
middle of the concrete floor, out in the open.
The guard was behind the wheel of a fork-lift
truck, the metal prongs jutting out towards
him like the horns of an enormous bull.
Powered by its forty-eight volt electric en-
gine, the truck was speeding towards him on
pneumatic tyres. Alex glanced up and saw
the heavy wooden pallets, a dozen of them,
balanced high above the cabin. He saw the
guard?s smile, a gleam of ugly teeth in an
uglier face.

70/390
The truck covered the distance between them
with astonishing speed then came to a sud-
den halt as the guard slammed on the brake.
Alex yelled and threw himself to one side.
The wooden pallets, carried forward by the
truck?s momentum, slid off the forks and
came clattering down.

Alex should have been crushed, would have
been, but for the beer barrels. A line of them
had taken the weight of the pallets, leaving a
tiny triangle of space. Alex heard the wood
smashing centimetres above his head. Splin-
ters rained down on his neck and back. Dust
and dirt smothered him. But he was still
alive. Choking and half blinded, he crawled
forward as the fork-lift truck reversed and
prepared to come after him again.

How could he have been so stupid? The
guard had seen him that first time in the
Complex, when he had made his telephone
call. Alex had stood there, gaping at the tat-
too on the man?s arm and had thought that

71/390
his ballboy uniform would be enough to pro-
tect him. And then, in the Millennium Build-
ing, Alex had clumsily knocked into him to
get his hands on the mobile phone.

Of course the guard had known who he was
and what he was doing. It didn?t matter that
he was a teenager. He was dangerous. He
had to be taken out.

And so he had laid a trap so obvious that it
wouldn?t have fooled … well, a schoolboy.
Alex might want to think of himself as some
sort of superspy who had twice saved the
whole world, but that was nonsense. The
guard had made a fake phone call and
tricked Alex into following him into this des-
olate area. And now he was going to kill him.
It wouldn?t matter who he was or how much
he had found out once he was dead.

Choking and sick, Alex staggered to his feet
just as the fork-lift truck bore down on him a
second time. He turned and ran. The guard

72/390
looked almost ridiculous, hunched up in the
tiny cabin. But the machine he was driving
was fast, powerful and incredibly flexible,
spinning a full circle on a ten pence piece.
Alex tried changing direction, sprinting to
one side. The truck spun round and followed.
Could he make it back to the raised plat-
form? No. Alex knew it was too far away.

Now the guard reached out and pressed a
button. The metal
forks shuddered and
dropped down so that they were less like
horns, more like the twin swords of some
nightmare medieval knight.

Which way should he dive? Left or right?
Alex just had time to make up his mind be-
fore the truck was on him. He dived to the
right, rolling over and over on the concrete.
The guard pulled the joystick and the ma-
chine spun round again. Alex twisted and the
heavy wheels missed him by barely a centi-
metre, then crashed into one of the pillars.
There was a pause. Alex got up, his head

73/390
spinning. For a brief second, he hoped that
the collision might have knocked the guard
out, but with a sick feeling in his stomach he
saw the man step out of the cabin, brushing a
little dust off the arm of his jacket. He was
moving with the slow confidence of a man
who knew that he was in total command.
And Alex could already see why. Automatic-
ally, the guard had taken the stance of a mar-
tial arts expert; feet slightly apart, centre of
gravity low. His hands were curving in the
air, waiting to strike. He was still smiling. All
he could see was a defenceless boy—and one
already weakened by two encounters with
the fork-lift truck.

With a sudden cry, he lashed out, his right
hand slicing towards Alex?s throat. If the
blow had made contact, Alex would have
been killed. But at the last second he brought
up both his fists, crossing his arms to form a
block. The guard was taken by surprise and
Alex took advantage of the moment to kick

74/390
out with his right foot, aiming for the groin.
But the guard was no longer there, having
swivelled to one side, and in that moment
Alex knew he was up against a fighter who
was stronger, faster and more experienced
than him and that he really didn?t have a
chance.

The guard swung round, and this time the
back of his hand caught Alex on the side of
his head.

Alex heard the crack. For a moment he was
blinded. He reeled backwards, crashing into
a metal surface. It was the door of one of the
fridges. Somehow he caught hold of the
handle and as he stumbled forward, the door
opened. He felt a blast of cold across the
back of his neck and perhaps that was what
revived him and gave him the strength to
throw himself forward, ducking underneath
another vicious kick that had been aimed at
his throat.

75/390
Alex was in a bad way and he knew it. His
nose was bleeding. He could feel the warm
blood trickling down over the corner of his
mouth. His head was spinning and the elec-
tric light bulbs seemed to be flashing in front
of his eyes. But
the guard wasn?t even
breathing heavily. For the first time, Alex
wondered what it was that he had stumbled
onto. What could be so important to the
guard that he would be ready to murder a
fourteen-year-old boy in cold blood, without
even asking questions? Alex wiped the blood
away from his mouth and cursed Crawley for
coming to him on the football pitch, cursed
himself for listening. A front row seat at
Wimbledon? At Wimbledon cemetery, per-
haps. The guard started walking towards
him. Alex tensed himself, then dived out of
the way, avoiding a lethal double strike of
foot and fist. He landed next to a dustbin,
overflowing with rubbish. Using all his
strength, he picked it up and threw it,

76/390
grinning through gritted teeth as the bin
crashed into his attacker, spilling rotting
food all over him. The guard swore and
stumbled backwards. Alex ran round the
back of the fridge, trying to catch his breath,
searching for a way out.

He had only seconds to spare. He knew that
the guard would be coming after him and
next
time he would finish it. He?d had
enough. Alex looked left and right. He saw
the cylinders of compressed gas and dragged
one out of
its wire frame. The cylinder
seemed to weigh a ton but Alex was desper-
ate. He wrenched the tap on and heard the
gas jetting out. Then, holding the cylinder in
front of him with both hands, he stepped for-
ward. At that moment, the guard appeared
round the side of the fridge. Alex jerked for-
ward, his muscles screaming, shoving the
cylinder into the man?s face. The gas ex-
ploded into the man?s eyes,
temporarily
blinding him.

77/390
Alex brought the cylinder down, then up
again. The metal
rim clanged into the
guard?s head, just above his nose. Alex felt
the jolt of solid steel against bone. The guard
reeled back. Alex took another step forward.
This time he swung the cylinder like a cricket
bat, hitting the man with incredible force in
the shoulders and neck. The guard never had
a chance. He didn?t even cry out as he was
thrown off his feet and sent hurtling forward
into the open fridge.

Alex dropped the cylinder and groaned. It
felt as if his arms had been wrenched out of
their sockets. His head was still spinning and
he wondered if his nose had been broken. He
limped forward and looked into the fridge.

There was a curtain of plastic sheets and be-
hind it a mountain of cardboard boxes, each
and every one of them filled to the brim with
strawberries. Alex couldn?t help smiling.
Strawberries and cream was one of Wimble-
don?s greatest traditions, served at crazy

78/390
prices in the kiosks and restaurants above
ground. This was where they were stored.
The guard had landed in the middle of the
boxes, crushing many of them. He was un-
conscious, half buried in a blanket of straw-
berries, his head resting on a bright red pil-
low of them. Alex stood in the doorway, lean-
ing on the frame for support, allowing the
cold air to wash over him. There was a ther-
mostat next to him. Outside, the weather was
hot. The strawberries had to be kept chilled.
He took one last look at the man who had
tried to kill him. “Out cold,” he said.

Then he reached out and twisted the thermo-
stat control, sending the temperature down
below zero. Out colder. He closed the fridge
door and limped painfully away.

THE CRIBBER

It had taken the engineer just a few minutes
to take the water dispenser apart. Now he
reached inside and carefully disengaged a
slim glass phial from a tangle of wires and
circuit boards.

“Built into the filter,” he said. “There?s a
valve system. Very ingenious.”

He passed the phial to a stern-looking wo-
man who held it up to the light, examining
its contents.

The phial was half filled with a transparent
liquid. She swilled it round, applied a little to
her index finger and sniffed it. Her eyes nar-
rowed. “Librium,” she announced. She had a
clipped, matter-of-fact way of
speaking.
“Nasty little drug. A spoonful will put you out
cold. A couple of drops, though … they?ll just

80/390
you. Basically knock you off

confuse
balance.”

The restaurant, and indeed the entire Millen-
nium Building, had been closed for the night.
There were three other men there. John
Crawley was one. Next to him stood a uni-
formed policeman, obviously senior. The
third man was white-haired and serious,
wearing a Wimbledon tie. Alex was sitting to
one side, feeling suddenly tired and out of
place. Nobody apart from Crawley knew that
he worked for MI6. As far as they were con-
cerned, he was just a ballboy who had some-
how stumbled on the truth.

Alex was dressed in his own clothes now. He
had phoned Crawley, then taken a shower
and changed,
leaving his ballboy uniform
back in his locker. Somehow he knew that he
had worn it for the last time. He wondered if
he would be allowed to keep the shorts, shirt
and Hi-Tec trainers with the crossed rac-
quets logo embroidered on the tongue. The

81/390
uniform is the only payment Wimbledon
ballboys and girls receive.

“It?s pretty clear what was going on,” Craw-
ley was saying now. “You remember, I was
worried about that break-in we had, Sir Nor-
man.” This to the man in the club tie. “Well,
it seems I was right. They didn?t want to
steal anything. They came here to fix up the
water dispensers. In the restaurant, in the
lounge and probably all over the building.
Remote control … is that right, Henderson?”

Henderson was the man who had taken the
water
apart. Another MI6
operative.

dispenser

“That?s right, sir,” he replied. “The dispenser
functioned perfectly normally, giving out
iced water. But when it received a radio sig-
nal—and that?s what our friend was doing
with the fake mobile phone—it injected a few
millilitres of this drug, Librium. Not enough
to show up in a random blood test if anybody

82/390
happened to be tested. But enough to destroy
their game.”

Alex remembered the German player. Blitz,
Leaving the court after he?d lost his match.
He had looked dazed and out of focus. But he
had been more than that. He had been
drugged.

“It?s transparent,” the woman added. “And it
has virtually no taste. In a cup of iced water
it wouldn?t have been noticed.”

“But I don?t understand!” Sir Norman cut in.
“What was the point?”

“I think I can answer that,” the policeman
said. “As you know, the guard isn?t talking,
but the tattoo on his arm would indicate that
he is—or was—a member of the Big Circle.”

“And what exactly would that be?” Sir Nor-
man spluttered.

“It?s a triad, sir. A Chinese gang. The triads,
of course, are involved in a range of criminal

83/390
activities. Drugs. Vice. Illegal immigration.
And gambling. I would guess this operation
was related to the latter. Like any other
sporting event, Wimbledon attracts millions
of pounds? worth of bets. Now, as I under-
stand
French-
man—Lefevre—began the tournament with
odds of three hundred to one against his ac-
tually winning.”

young

it,

the

“But then he beat Blitz and Bryant,” Crawley
said.

“Exactly. I?m sure Lefevre had no idea, per-
sonally, what was going on. But if all his op-
ponents were drugged before they went onto
the court… Well, it happened twice. It could
have gone on right up to the final. Big Circle
would have made a killing! A hundred thou-
sand pounds bet on the Frenchman would
have brought them thirty million.”

Sir Norman stood up. “The important thing
now is that nobody finds out about this,” he

84/390
said. “It would be a national scandal and dis-
astrous for our reputation. In fact we?d
probably have to begin the whole tourna-
ment again!” He glanced at Alex but spoke to
Crawley. “Can this boy be trusted not to
talk?” he asked.

“I won?t tell anyone what happened,” Alex
said.

“Good. Good.”

The policeman nodded. “You did a very good
job,” he added. “Spotting this chap in the
first place and then following him and alt the
rest of it. Although, I have to say, I think it
was rather irresponsible to lock him in the
deep freeze.”

“He tried to kill me,” Alex said.

“Even so! He could have frozen to death. As
it is, he may well have lost a couple of fingers
from frostbite.”

“I hope that won?t spoil his tennis playing.”

85/390
“Well,
I don?t know…” The policeman
coughed. He was clearly unable to make Alex
out.

“Anyway, well done. But next time, do try to
think what you?re doing. I?m sure you
wouldn?t want anyone to get hurt!”

To hell with the lot of them!

Alex stood watching the waves, black and sil-
ver in the moonlight as they rolled into the
sweeping curve of Fistral Beach. He was try-
ing to put the policeman, Sir Norman and
the whole of Wimbledon out of his mind. He
had more or less saved the entire All England
Tennis Tournament and although he hadn?t
been expecting a season ticket in the royal
box and tea with the Duchess of Kent, nor
had he thought he would be bundled out
quite so hastily. He had watched the finals,
on his own, on TV. At least they?d let him
keep his ballboy uniform.

86/390
And there was one other good thing that had
come out of it all. Sabina hadn?t forgotten
her invitation.

He was standing on the veranda of the house
her parents had rented, a house that would
have been ugly anywhere else in the world
but which seemed perfectly suited to its posi-
tion on the edge of a cliff overlooking the
Cornish coast. It was old-fashioned, square,
part brick, part white-painted wood. It had
five bedrooms, three staircases and too many
doors. Its garden was more dead than alive,
blasted by salt and sea spray. The house was
called Brook?s Leap, although nobody knew
who Brook was, why he had leapt, or even if
he had survived. Alex had been there for
three days. He had been invited to stay the
week.

There was a movement behind him. A door
had opened and Sabina Pleasure stepped
out, wrapped in a thick towelling robe, carry-
ing two glasses.
It was warm outside.

87/390
Although it had been raining when Alex ar-
rived—it nearly always seemed to be raining
in Cornwall—the weather had cleared and
this was suddenly a summer?s night. Sabina
had left him outside while she went in to
have a bath. Her hair was still wet. The robe
fell loosely down to her bare feet.

Alex thought she looked much older than her
fifteen years.

“I brought you a Coke,” she said.

“Thanks.”

The veranda was wide, with a low balcony, a
swing chair and a table. Sabina set
the
glasses down then sat down herself. Alex
joined her. The wooden frame of the swing
chair creaked and they swung together, look-
ing out at the view. For a long time neither of
them said anything.

Then, suddenly…

88/390
“Why don?t you tell me the truth?” Sabina
asked.

“What d?you mean?”

“I was just thinking about Wimbledon. Why
did you leave straight after the quarter fi-
nals? You were there one minute. Court
Number One! And then—”

“I told you,” Alex cut in, feeling uncomfort-
able. “I wasn?t well.”

“That?s not what I heard. There was a ru-
mour that you were involved in some sort of
fight. And that?s another thing. I?ve noticed
you in your swimming shorts. I?ve never
seen anyone with so many cuts and bruises.”

“I?m bullied at school.”

“I don?t think so. I?ve got a friend who goes
to Brookland. She says you?re never there.
You keep disappearing. You were away twice
last term and the day you got back, half the
school burned down.”

89/390
Alex leaned forward and picked up his Coke,
rolling the cold glass between his hands. An
aeroplane was crossing the sky, tiny in the
great darkness, its lights blinking on and off.

“All right, Sab,” he said. “I?m not really a
schoolboy. I?m a spy, a teenage James Bond.
I have to take time off from school to save
the world. I?ve done it twice so far. The first
time was here in Cornwall. The second time
was in France. What else do you want to
know?”

Sabina smiled. “All right, Alex. Ask a stupid
question…” She drew her legs up, snuggling
into the warmth of the towelling robe. “But
there is something different about you.
You?re like no boy I?ve ever met.”

“Kids?” Sabina?s mother was calling out
from the kitchen. “Shouldn?t you be thinking
about bed?”

It was ten o?clock. The two of them would be
getting up at five to catch the surf.

“Five minutes!” Sabina called back.

90/390

“I?m counting.”

Sabina sighed. “Mothers!”

But Alex had never known his mother.

Twenty minutes later, getting into bed, he
thought about Sabina Pleasure and her par-
ents; her father a slightly bookish man with
long grey hair and spectacles, her mother
round and cheerful, more like Sabina herself.
There were only the three of them. Maybe
that was what made them so close. They
lived in west London and rented this house
for four weeks every summer.

He turned off the light and lay back in the
darkness. His room, set high up in the roof of
the house, had only one small window and
he could see the moon, glowing white, as
perfectly round as a one penny piece. From
the moment he had arrived, they?d treated
him as if they?d known him all his life. Every

91/390
family has its own routine and Alex had been
surprised how quickly he had fallen in with
theirs, joining them on long walks along the
cliffs, helping with the shopping and the
cooking, or simply sharing the silence—read-
ing and watching the sea.

Why couldn?t he have had a family like this?
Alex felt an old, familiar sadness creep up on
him.

His parents had died before he was even a
few weeks old. The uncle who had brought
him up and who had taught him so much
had still been, in many ways, a stranger to
him. He had no brothers or sisters. Some-
times he felt as isolated as the plane he had
seen from the veranda, making its long jour-
ney across the night sky, unnoticed and
alone.

Alex pulled the pillows up around his head,
annoyed with himself. He had friends. He
enjoyed his life. He?d managed to catch up

92/390
with his work at school and he was having a
great holiday.

And with a bit of luck, with the Wimbledon
business behind him, MI6 would leave him
alone.

So why was he letting himself slip into this
mood?

The door opened. Somebody had come into
his room. It was Sabina. She was leaning
over him.

He felt her hair fall against his cheek and
smelled her faint perfume; flowers and white
musk.

Her lips brushed gently against his.

“You?re much cuter than James Bond,” she
said.

And then she was gone. The door closed be-
hind her.

Five-fifteen the next morning.

93/390
If this had been a schoolday, Alex wouldn?t
have woken up for another two hours, and
even then he would have dragged himself out
of bed unwillingly. But this morning he had
been awake in an instant. He had felt the en-
ergy and tension coursing through him. And
walking down to Fistral Beach with the dawn
light pink in the sky, he could feel it still. The
sea was calling to him, daring him to come
in.
the waves!” Sabina said.
“They?re big,” Alex muttered.

“Look at

“They?re huge. This is amazing!” It was true.
Alex had been surfing twice before—once in
Norfolk, once with his uncle in Califor-
nia—but he had never seen anything like
this. There was no wind. The local radio sta-
tion had warned of deep water squalls and an
exceptionally high tide.

Together these had produced waves that
took his breath away. They were at least ten
feet high, rolling slowly inland as if they car-
ried the weight of the whole ocean on their

94/390
shoulders. The crash as they broke was huge,
terrifying. Alex could feel his heart pound-
ing. He looked at the moving walls of water,
the dark blue, the foaming white. Was he
really going to ride one of these monsters on
a flimsy board made of nothing more than a
strip of fibreglass? Sabina had seen him hes-
itate. “What d?you think?” she asked.

“I don?t know…” Alex replied and realized he
was shouting to make himself heard above
the roar of the waves.

“The sea?s too strong!” Sabina was a good
surfer. The morning before, Alex had
watched her skilfully manoeuvring some
nasty reefbreaks close to the shore. But now
she looked uncertain.

“Maybe we should go back to bed!” she
yelled.

Alex took in the whole scene. There were
another half-dozen surfers on the beach and,
in the far distance, a man steadying a jet ski

95/390
in the shallow water. He knew that he and
Sabina would be the youngest people there.
Like her, he was wearing a three millimetre
neoprene wetsuit and boots which would
protect him from the cold. So why was he
shivering? Alex didn?t have his own board
but had rented an Ocean Magic thruster. Sa-
bina?s was a wider, thicker board, going for
stability rather than speed, but Alex pre-
ferred the thruster for its grip and the feeling
of control provided by its three fins. He was
glad also that he had chosen an eight-foot-
four. If he was going to catch waves as big as
these, he was going to need the extra length.
If…

Alex wasn?t sure he was going into the wa-
ter. The waves looked about twice as tall as
him and he knew that if he made a mistake
he could all too easily get killed. Sabina?s
parents had forbidden her to go in if the sea
looked too rough and he had to admit, it had
never looked rougher. He watched another

96/390
wave come crashing down and might have
turned back if he hadn?t heard one surfer
calling to another,
the words whipping
across the empty sands.

“The Cribber!”

It couldn?t be true. The Cribber had come to
Fistral Beach. Alex had heard the name
many times.

The Cribber had become a legend not just in
Cornwall but throughout the surfing world.
Its first recorded visit had been in September
1966, more than twenty feet high, the most
powerful wave ever to hit the English coast.
Since then there had been occasional sight-
ings, but few had seen it and fewer still had
managed to take the ride.

“The Cribber! The Cribber!” The other
surfers were calling its name, whooping and
shouting. He watched them dance across the
sand, their boards over their heads. Sud-
denly he knew that he had to go into the

97/390
water. He was too young. The waves were too
big. But he would never forgive himself if he
missed the chance.

“I?m going!” he shouted and ran forward,
carrying his board in front of him, the tail
connected to his ankle by a tough urethane
leash. Out of the corner of his eye he saw Sa-
bina raise a hand in a gesture of good luck,
but by then he had reached the edge of the
sea and felt the cold water grip his ankles. He
threw the board down and dived on top of it,
the momentum carrying him forward. And
then he was lying flat on his stomach, his
legs stretched out behind him, his hands
paddling furiously over the top of the board.
This was the most exhausting part of the
journey.

on

his

concentrated

and
Alex
shoulders, keeping the rest of his body still.
He had a long way to go. He needed to con-
serve energy.

arms

98/390
He heard a sound above the pounding of the
sea and noticed the jet ski pulling away from
the shore. That puzzled him. PWCs—person-
al water craft—were rare in Cornwall and he
certainly hadn?t
seen this one before.
Normally they were used to tow surfers out
to the bigger waves, but this jet ski was strik-
ing out on its own. He could see the rider,
hooded,
in a black wetsuit. Was he—or
she—planning to ride the Cribber on a
machine?

He forgot about it. His arms were getting
tired now and he hadn?t even made it
halfway. His cupped hands scooped the wa-
ter and he felt himself shoot forward. The
other surfers were well ahead of him. He
could see the point where the waves crested,
about twenty metres away. A mountain of
water rose up in front of him and he duck-
dived through it. For a moment he was blind.
He tasted salt and the chill of the water
hammered into his skull. But then he was

99/390
out the other side. He fixed his eyes on the
horizon and redoubled his efforts. The
thruster carried him forward as if it had
somehow been filled with a life of its own.

Alex stopped and drew breath. Suddenly
everything seemed very silent. He was still
lying on his stomach, rising and falling as he
was swept over the waves. He looked back at
the shoreline and was surprised to see how
far he had come. Sabina was sitting watching
him, a tiny speck in the distance. The nearest
surfer was about thirty metres away; too far
to help if anything went wrong.

There was a knot of fear in his stomach and
he wondered if he hadn?t been a bit hasty,
coming out here on his own. But it was too
late now.

He sensed it before he saw it. It was as if the
world had chosen that moment to come to an
end and all nature was taking one final

100/390
breath. He turned and there it was. The Crib-
ber was coming.

It was hurtling towards him. Now it was too
late to change his mind.

For a few seconds Alex stared in astonish-
ment at the rolling, curving, thundering wa-
ter. It was like watching a four-storey build-
ing wrench itself out of the ground and hurl
itself onto the street.

It was built entirely out of water, but the wa-
ter was alive. Alex could feel its incredible
strength.

Suddenly, awesomely, it rose up in front of
him. And went on rising until it had blotted
out the sky. Techniques that he had learned a
long time ago took over automatically. Alex
grabbed the edge of the board and turned
round so that he was once again facing the
shore. He forced himself to wait until the last
second. Move too late and he would miss
everything. But
too early and he would

101/390
simply be crushed. His muscles tensed. His
teeth were chattering. His whole body
seemed to have become electrified. Now!

This was the most difficult part, the move-
ment that was hardest to learn but im-
possible to forget.

The pop-up. Alex could feel the board travel-
ling with the pulse of the wave. His speed
and the speed of the water had become one.
He brought his hands down, flat on the
board, arched his back and pushed. At the
same time, he brought his right leg forward.
Goofy-footed. When he was snowboarding,
he was exactly the same. But he didn?t care,
as long as he could actually stand up without
losing his balance, and already he was doing
just that, balancing the two main forces,
speed and gravity, as the thruster sliced diag-
onally across the wave.

102/390
He stood straight, his arms out, his teeth
bared, perfectly centred on the board. He
had done it!

He was riding the Cribber. Sheer exhilara-
tion coursed through him. He could feel the
power of the wave. He was part of it. He was
plugged into the world and although he must
be travelling at sixty, seventy kilometres per
hour, time seemed to have slowed down al-
most to a halt and he was frozen in this one,
perfect moment that would be with him for
the rest of his life. He yelled out loud, an an-
imal cry that he couldn?t even hear. Spray
rushed into his face, exploding around him.

He could barely feel the thruster under his
feet. He was flying. He had never been more
alive.

And then he heard it over the roar of the
waves. It was coming up fast to one side of
him, the whine of a petrol engine. To hear
anything mechanical here, at this time, was

103/390
so unlikely that he thought he must have
imagined it. Then he remembered the jet ski.
It must have gone out to sea and then circled
round, behind the waves. Now it was coming
in fast.

His first thought was that the rider was
“dropping in”. It was one of the unwritten
laws of surfing. Alex was up and riding. This
was his wave. The rider had no right to cut
into his space.

But at the same time, he knew that was
crazy. Fistral Beach was practically deserted.
There was no need to fight for space. And
anyway, a jet ski coming after a surfer…it
was unheard of.

The engine was louder now. Alex couldn?t
see the jet ski. His entire concentration was
fixed on the Cribber, on keeping his balance,
and he didn?t dare turn round. He was sud-
denly aware of the rushing water, thousands
of gallons of it, thundering under his feet. If

104/390
he fell he would die, ripped apart before he
could drown. What was the jet ski doing?
Why was it coming so close?

Alex knew he was in danger quite suddenly
and with total certainty. What was happen-
ing had nothing to do with Cornwall and his
surfing holiday. His other life, his life with
MI6, had caught up with him. He re-
membered being chased down the moun-
tainside at Point Blanc and knew that the
same thing was happening again. Who or
why didn?t matter. He had just seconds to do
something before the jet ski ran him down.

He flicked his head and saw it for just a
second. A black nose like a torpedo. Gleam-
ing chrome and glass. A man squatting low
over the controls, his eyes fixed on Alex. The
eyes were filled with hatred. They were less
than a metre away.

There was only one thing Alex could do and
he did it instantly, without thinking. The

105/390
aerial is a move that demands split-second
timing and total confidence. Alex twisted
round and projected himself off the top of
the wave and out into the air. At the same
time, he crouched down and seized hold of
the thruster, one hand on each side. Now he
really was flying, suspended in midair as the
wave rolled away beneath him. He saw the
jet ski race past, covering the area where he
had been only seconds before. He spun
round, drawing an almost complete circle in
the air. At the last moment, he remembered
to place his foot right in the centre of the
board. This would take all his weight when
he landed.

The water rushed up to meet him. Alex fin-
ished his circle and plunged once again onto
the face of the wave. It was a perfect landing.
Water exploded around him but he remained
upright and now he was just behind the jet
ski. The rider turned back and Alex saw the
look of astonishment on his face. The man

106/390
was Chinese. Impossibly, incredibly, he was
holding a gun. Alex saw it come up, water
dripping off the barrel. This time there was
nowhere he could go. He didn?t have the
strength to try another aerial. With a shout,
he threw himself off the board and forward,
onto the jet ski. He felt a jolt, his leg almost
being pulled off as his board was torn away
by the suddenly malevolent water.

There was an explosion. The man had fired.
But the bullet missed. Alex thought he felt it
pass over his shoulder. At the same moment,
his hands grabbed the man?s throat. His
knees crashed into the side of the jet ski. And
then the entire world was whipped away as
man and machine lost control and tumbled
into a spinning vortex of water. Alex?s leg
jerked a second time and he felt the leash
snap. He heard a shout. Suddenly the man
wasn?t there any more. Alex was on his own.

He couldn?t breathe. Water pounded down
on him. He felt himself being sucked

107/390
helplessly into it. He couldn?t struggle. His
arms and legs were useless. He had no
strength left. He opened his mouth to scream
and the water rushed in.

Then his shoulder hit something hard and he
knew he had reached the bottom of the sea
and that this would have to be his grave. He
had dared to play with the Cribber and the
Cribber had taken its revenge. Somewhere,
far above, another wave broke over him, but
Alex didn?t see it. He lay where he was, fi-
nally at peace.

TWO WEEKS IN THE SUN

Alex wasn?t sure what was more surprising.
To be still alive, or to find himself back in the
London headquarters of the Special Opera-
tions division of MI6.

The fact that he was still breathing was, he
knew, entirely down to Sabina. She had been
sitting on the beach, watching in awe as he
rode the Cribber towards her. She had seen
the jet ski coming up behind him even before
he did and had known instinctively that
something was wrong. She had started run-
ning the moment Alex had leapt into the air
and was already in the water by the time he
crashed down next to the jet ski and then
disappeared below the surface.

Later on, she would say that there had been a
collision … a terrible accident. From that dis-
tance it was impossible to see what had
really taken place.

109/390
Sabina was a strong swimmer and luck was
on her side. Although the water was murky
and the waves still huge, she knew where
Alex had gone down and she was there in
less than a minute.

She found him on her third dive, dragged his
unconscious body to the surface and then
pulled him ashore. She had learned mouth-
to-mouth resuscitation at school and she
used that knowledge now, pressing her lips
against his, forcing the air into his lungs.
Even then, she was sure that Alex was dead.
He wasn?t breathing. His eyes were closed.
Sabina
chest—once,
twice—and was finally rewarded with a sud-
den spasm and a fit of coughing as Alex came
to. By then, some of the other surfers had ar-
rived. One of them had a mobile phone and
called for an ambulance. There was no sign
of the man on the jet ski.

pounded

on

his

Alex had been lucky too. As it turned out, he
had ridden the Cribber just far enough to be

110/390
near the end of its journey, when the wave
had been at its weakest. A ton of water had
fallen onto him, but five seconds earlier and
it might have been ten tons. Also, he hadn?t
been too far from the shore when Sabina
found him. Any further out and she might
never have found him at all.

Five days had passed since then.

It was Monday morning, the start of a new
week. Alex was sitting in room 1605, on the
sixteenth floor of the anonymous building in
Liverpool Street. He had sworn that he
would never return here. The man and the
woman with him in the room were the last
two people he wanted to see.

And yet here he was. He had been drawn in
as easily as a fish in a net.

As usual, Alan Blunt didn?t seem particu-
larly pleased to see him, preferring to study
the file on the desk in front of him rather
than the boy himself. It was the fifth or sixth

111/390
time Alex had met the man in overall com-
mand of this section of MI6 and he still knew
almost nothing about him.

Blunt was about fifty, a man in a suit in an
office. He didn?t seem to smoke and Alex
couldn?t imagine him drinking either. Was
he married? Did he have children? Did he
spend his weekends walking in the park or
fishing or watching football matches? Some-
how Alex doubted it. He wondered if Blunt
had any existence at all outside these four
walls. He was a man defined by his work. His
whole life was devoted to secrets, and in the
end his own life had become a secret itself.
He looked up from the neatly printed report.

“Crawley had no right to involve you in this
business,” he said. Alex said nothing. For
once, he wasn?t sure that he disagreed.

“The Wimbledon tennis championships. You
nearly got yourself killed.” He glanced quiz-
zically at Alex.
in

“And this business

112/390
Cornwall. I don?t like my agents getting in-
volved in dangerous sports.”

“I?m not one of your agents,” Alex said.

“There?s enough danger in the job without
adding to it,” Blunt went on, ignoring him.
“What happened to the man on the jet ski?”
he asked.

“We?re interrogating him now,” Mrs Jones
replied.

The deputy head of Special Operations was
wearing a grey trouser suit, with a black
leather handbag that matched her eyes.
There was a silver brooch on her lapel,
shaped like a miniature dagger. It seemed
appropriate.

She had been the first to visit Alex as he?d
recovered in hospital in Newquay and she at
least had been concerned about what had
happened. Of course, she had shown little or
no emotion. If anyone had asked, she would

113/390
have said that she didn?t want
to lose
someone who had been useful to her and
who might be useful again. But Alex suspec-
ted this was only half the story. She was a
woman and he was fourteen years old. If Mrs
Jones had a son, he could well be the same
age as Alex. That made a difference—one
that she wasn?t quite able to ignore.

“We found a tattoo on the man?s arm,” she
continued. “It seems that he was also a mem-
ber of the Big Circle gang.” She turned to
Alex. “The Big Circle is a relatively new tri-
ad,” she explained.

“It?s also, unfortunately, one of the most
violent.”

“I think I?d noticed,” Alex said.

“The man you knocked out and refrigerated
at Wimbledon was a Sai-b. That means „little
brother?. You have to understand how these
people work. You smashed their operation
and made them lose face. That?s the last

114/390
thing they can afford. So they sent someone
after you. He hasn?t said anything yet but we
believe he?s a Dai-io, or a „big brother?.
He?ll have a rank of 438 …

that?s one under the Dragon Head, the lead-
er of the triad. And now he?s failed too. It?s
a little unfortunate, Alex, that as well as half-
drowning him, you also broke his nose. The
triad will take that as another humiliation.”

“I didn?t do anything,” Alex said. It was true.
He remembered how the thruster had finally
been torn away from his ankle. It wasn?t his
fault that it had hit the man in the face.

“That?s not how they?ll see it,” Mrs Jones
went on. She sounded like a schoolteacher.
“What we?re dealing with here is Guan-shi.”

Alex waited for her to explain.

“Guan-shi is what gives Big Circle its power,”
she said. “It?s a system of mutual respect. It
ties all the members together. It essentially

115/390
means that if you hurt one of them, you hurt
them all.

And if one of them becomes your enemy,
they all do.”

“You attack one of their people at Wimble-
don,” Blunt rasped, “they send another down
to Cornwall.”

“You take out their man in Cornwall, the or-
der goes out to the other members of the tri-
ad to kill you,” Mrs Jones said.

“How many other members are there?” Alex
asked. “About nineteen thousand at the last
count,”

Blunt replied.

There was a long silence, punctured only by
the distant traffic sixteen floors below.

“Every minute you stay in this country,
you?re in danger,” Mrs Jones said. “And
there?s not a great deal we can do. Of course,
we have some influence with the triads. If we

116/390
let the right people know that you?re protec-
ted by us, it may be possible to call them off.
But that?s going to take time and the fact of
the matter is, they?re probably working on
the next plan of attack right now.”

“You can?t go home,” Blunt said. “You can?t
go back to school. You can?t go anywhere on
your own. That woman who looks after you,
the housekeeper, we?ve already arranged for
her to be sent out of London. We can?t take
any chances.”

“So what am I meant to do?” Alex asked. Mrs
Jones glanced at Blunt, who nodded. Neither
of them looked particularly concerned and
he suddenly realized that things had worked
out exactly as
they wanted. Somehow,
without knowing it, he had played right into
their hands.

“By coincidence, Alex,” Mrs Jones began, “a
few days ago we had a request for your ser-
vices. It came from an American intelligence

117/390
service. The Central Intelligence Agency—or
CIA as you probably know them. They need a
young person for an operation they happen
to be mounting and they wondered if you
might be available.”

Alex was surprised. MI6 had used him twice
and both times they had stressed that
nobody was to know. Now, it seemed, they
had been boasting about their teenage spy.
Worse than that, they had even been prepar-
ing to lend him out, like a library book.

As if reading his mind, Mrs Jones raised a
hand. “We had told them, of course, that you
had no wish to continue in this line of work,”
she said. “That was, after all, what you had
told us. A schoolboy, not a spy. That?s what
you said. But
seem now that
everything has changed.

it does

I?m sorry, Alex, but for whatever reason,
you?ve chosen to go back into the field and

118/390
unfortunately you?re in danger. You have to
disappear. This might be the best way.”

“You want me to go to America?” Alex asked.
“Not exactly America,” Blunt cut in. “We
want you to go to Cuba … or, at least, to an
island just a few miles south of Cuba. It?s
called Cayo Esqueleto. That?s Spanish. It
means—”

“Skeleton Key,” Alex said. “That?s right. Of
course, there are plenty of keys off the coast
of America. You?ll have heard of Key Largo
and Key West. This one was discovered by
Sir Francis Drake. The story goes that when
he landed there, the place was uninhabited.
But he found a single skeleton, a conquista-
dor in full armour, sitting on the beach. That
was how the island got its name. Anyway, no
matter what it?s called, it?s actually a very
beautiful place. A tourist resort.

Luxury hotels, diving, sailing… We?re not
asking you to do anything dangerous, Alex.

119/390
Quite the contrary. You can think of this as a
paid holiday. Two weeks in the sun.”

“Go on,” Alex said. He couldn?t help sound-
ing doubtful.

“The CIA is interested in Cayo Esqueleto be-
cause of a man who lives there. He?s a Russi-
an. He has a huge house—some might even
call it a palace—on a sort of isthmus, that is
to say, a narrow strip of land at the very
northern tip of the island. His name is Gen-
eral Alexei Sarov.”

Blunt pulled a photograph out of the file and
turned it round so that Alex could see. It
showed a fit-looking man in military uni-
form. The picture had been taken in Red
Square, Moscow. Alex could see the onion-
shaped towers of the Kremlin behind him.

“Sarov belongs to a different age,” Mrs Jones
said, taking over. “He was a commander in
the Russian army at a time when the

120/390
Russians were our enemies and still part of
the Soviet Union.

This wasn?t very long ago, Alex. The collapse
of communism. It was only in 1989 that the
Berlin Wall came down.” She stopped. “I
suppose none of this means very much to
you.”

“Well, it wouldn?t,” Alex said. “I was only
two years old.”

“Yes, of course. But you have to understand,
Sarov was a hero of the old Russia. He was
made a general when he was only thirty-
eight—the same year that his country in-
vaded Afghanistan. He fought there for ten
years, rising to be second in command of the
Red Army. He had a son who was killed
there. Sarov didn?t even go the funeral. It
would have meant abandoning his men and
he wouldn?t do that—not even for one day.”

121/390
Alex looked at the photograph again. He
could see the hardness in the man?s eyes. It
was a face without a shred of warmth.

“The war in Afghanistan ended when the
Soviets withdrew in 1989,” Mrs Jones con-
tinued. “At the same time, the whole country
was falling apart. Communism came to an
end and Sarov left.

He made no secret of the fact that he didn?t
like the new Russia with its jeans and Nike
trainers and McDonald?s on every street
corner. He left the army, although he still
calls himself General, and went to live—”

“In Skeleton Key.” Alex
sentence.

finished the

“Yes. He?s been there for ten years now—and
this is the point, Alex. In two weeks? time,
the Russian president is planning to meet
him there. There?s nothing surprising in
that. The two men are old friends. They even
grew up in the same part of Moscow. But the

122/390
CIA are worried. They want to know what
Sarov is up to. Why are the two men meet-
ing? Old Russia and new Russia.

What?s going on?”

“The CIA want to spy on Sarov.”

“Yes. It?s a simple surveillance operation.
They want to send in an undercover team to
take a look around before the president
arrives.”

“Fine.” Alex shrugged. “But why do they
need me?”

“Because Skeleton Key is a communist is-
land,” Blunt explained. “It belongs to Cuba,
one of the last places in the western world
where communism still exists. Getting in and
out of
the place is extremely difficult.
There?s an airport at Santiago. But every
plane
is
checked. They?re always on the lookout for

is watched. Every passenger

123/390
American spies and anyone who is even
slightly suspect is stopped and turned away.”

“And that?s why the CIA have come to us,”
Mrs Jones continued. “A single man might
be suspicious. A man and a woman might be
a team. But a man and a woman travelling
with a child…? That has to be a family!”

“That?s all they want from you, Alex,” Blunt
said. “You go in with them. You stay at their
hotel.

You swim, snorkel and enjoy the sun. They
do all the work. You?re only there as part of
their cover.”

“Couldn?t they use an American boy?” Alex
asked.

Blunt coughed, obviously embarrassed. “The
Americans would never use one of their own
young people in an exercise like this,” he
said. They have a different set of rules to us.”

124/390
“You mean they?d be worried about getting
him killed.”

“We wouldn?t have asked you, Alex,” Mrs
Jones broke the awkward silence. “But you
have to leave London. In fact, you have to
leave England. We?re not trying to get you
killed. We?re trying to protect you and this is
the best way. Mr Blunt is right. Cayo Esquel-
eto is a beautiful island and you?re really
very lucky to be going there. You can look on
the whole thing as a free holiday.”

Alex thought it over. He looked from Alan
Blunt to Mrs Jones, but of course they were
giving nothing away. How many agents had
sat in this room with the two of them, listen-
ing to their honeyed words? It?s a simple
job. Nothing to it. You?ll be back in two
weeks…

His own uncle had been one of them, sent to
check on security in a computer factory on

125/390
the south coast. But Ian Rider had never
made it back.

Alex wanted none of it. There were still a few
weeks of the summer holidays left and he
wanted to see Sabina again. The two of them
had talked about northern France and the
Loire Valley, youth hostels and hiking. He
had friends in London. Jack Starbright, his
housekeeper and closest friend, had offered
to take him with her when she visited her
parents in Chicago. Seven weeks of normal-
ity. Was it too much to ask?

And yet, he remembered what had happened
on the Cribber when the man on the jet ski
had caught up with him. Alex had seen his
eyes for just a few seconds but there had
been no mistaking their cruelty and fanat-
icism. This was a man who had been pre-
pared to chase him across the top of a
twenty-foot wave in order to mow him down
from behind—and he had come perilously

126/390
close to succeeding. Alex knew, with a sick
certainty, that the triad would try again.

He had offended them … not once now, but
twice. Blunt was right about that. Any hope
of an ordinary summer had gone out the
window.

“If I help your friends in the CIA, you can get
the triad to leave me alone?” he asked.

Mrs Jones nodded. “We have contacts in the
Chinese underworld. But it will take time,
Alex.

Whatever happens, you?re going to have to
go into hiding—at least for the next couple of
weeks.”

So why not do it in the sun?

Alex nodded wearily. “All right,” he said. “It
seems I don?t really have a lot of choice.
When do you want me to leave?”

127/390
Blunt took an envelope out of the file. “I have
your air ticket here,” he said. “There?s a
flight this afternoon.”

Of course, they had known he would accept.

“We will want to keep in touch with you
while you?re away,” Mrs Jones muttered.

“I?ll send you a postcard,” Alex said.

“No, Alex, that?s not quite what I had in
mind. Why don?t you go and have a word
with Smithers?”

Smithers had an office on the eleventh floor
of the building and at first Alex had to admit
he was disappointed.

It was Smithers who had designed the vari-
ous gadgets Alex had used on his previous
missions and Alex had expected to find him
somewhere in the basement, surrounded by
cars and motorbikes, hi-tech weapons and
men and women in white coats. But this
room was
and

boring:

large,

square

128/390
anonymous. It could have belonged to the
chief executive of almost anything; an insur-
ance company, perhaps, or a bank. There
was a steel and glass desk with a telephone, a
computer, “in” and “out” trays and an angle-
poise lamp. A leather sofa stood against one
wall, and on the other side of the room was a
silver filing cabinet with six drawers. A pic-
ture hung on the wall behind the desk; a view
of the sea. But disappointingly, there were no
gadgets anywhere. Not so much as an electric
pencil sharpener.

Smithers himself was behind the desk, tap-
ping at the computer with fingers almost too
big for the keys. He was one of the fattest
people Alex had ever met. Today he was
wearing a black three-piece suit with what
looked like an old school tie perched limply
on the great bulge of his stomach. Seeing
Alex, he stopped typing and swivelled round
in a leather chair that must have been rein-
forced to take his weight.

129/390
“My dear boy!” he exclaimed. “How delight-
ful to see you. Come in, come in! How have
you been keeping? I hear you had a bit of
trouble, that business in France. You really
must look after yourself, Alex. I?d be morti-
fied if anything happened to you. Door!”

Alex was surprised when the door swung
shut behind him.

“Voice activated,” Smithers explained. “Do,
please, sit down.”

Alex sat on a second leather chair on the oth-
er side of the desk. As he did so, there was a
low hum and the anglepoise lamp swivelled
round and bent towards him like some sort
of metallic bird taking a closer look. At the
same time, the computer screen flickered
and a human skeleton appeared. Alex moved
a hand. The skeleton?s hand moved. With a
shudder, he realized he was looking at—or
rather, through—himself.

130/390
“You?re looking well,” Smithers said. “Good
bone structure!”

“What…?” Alex began.

“It?s just something I?ve been working on. A
simple X-ray device. Useful
if anyone is
wearing a gun.” Smithers pressed a button
and the screen went blank. “Now, Mr Blunt
tells me that you?re off to join our friends in
the CIA. They?re fine operators. Very, very
good—except, of course, you can never trust
them and they have no sense of humour.
Cayo Esqueleto, I understand…?”

He leant forward and pressed another button
on the desk. Alex glanced at the painting on
the wall. The waves had begun to move! At
the same time, the image shifted, pulling
back, and he realized that he was looking at a
plasma television screen with a picture
beamed by satellite from somewhere above
the Atlantic Ocean. Alex found himself look-
ing down on an irregularly shaped island

131/390
surrounded by turquoise water. The image
was time coded and he realized that it was
being broadcast into the room live.

climate,”

“Tropical
Smithers muttered.
“There?ll be quite a lot of rainfall at this time
of year.

I?ve been developing a poncho that doubles
as a parachute, but I don?t think you?ll need
that.

And I?ve got a marvellous mosquito coil. As
a matter of fact, mosquitoes are about the
only thing it won?t knock out. But you won?t
need that either! In fact, I?m told the only
thing you actually do need is something to
help you keep in touch.”

“A secret transmitter,” Alex said.

“Why does it have to be secret?” Smithers
pulled open a drawer and took out an object
which he placed in front of Alex.

It was a mobile phone.

already

“I?ve
muttered.

got

one,

132/390
thanks,” Alex

“Not one like this,” Smithers retorted. “It
gives you a direct link with this office, even
when you?re in America. It works underwa-
ter—and in space. The pads are fingerprint
sensitive so only you can use it. This is the
model five. We also have a model seven. You
hold it upside down when you dial or it
blows up in your hand—”

“Why can?t I have that model?” Alex asked.

“Mr. Blunt has forbidden it.” Smithers leant
forward conspiratorially. “But I have put in a
little extra for you. You see the aerial just
here? Dial 999 and it?ll shoot out like a
needle. Drugged, of course. It?ll knock out
anyone in a twenty metre range.”

“Right.” Alex picked up the phone. “Have
you got anything else?”

told you weren?t

133/390
“I was
to have any
weapons…” Smithers sighed, then leant for-
ward and spoke into a potted plant. “Could
you bring them up, please, Miss Pickering?”

Alex was beginning to have serious doubts
about this office—and these were confirmed
a moment later when the leather sofa sud-
denly split in half, the two ends moving away
from each other. At the same time, part of
the floor slid aside to allow another piece of
sofa to shoot silently into place, turning the
two-seater into a three-seater. A young wo-
man had been carried up with the new piece.
She was sitting with her legs crossed and her
hands on her knee. She stood up and walked
over to Smithers.

“These are the items you requested,” she
said, handing over a package. She produced
a sheet of paper and placed it in front of him.
“And this report just came in from Cairo.”

134/390
“Thank you, Miss Pickering.” Smithers
waited until the woman had left—using the
door this time—then glanced quickly at the
report. “Not good news,” he muttered. “Not
good news at all.

Oh well…” He slid the report into the “out”
tray. There was a flash of electricity as the
paper self-destructed. A second later, there
were only ashes left. “I?m bending the rules
doing this,” he went on. “But there were a
couple of things I?d been developing for you
and I don?t see why you shouldn?t take them
with you. Better safe than sorry.”

He turned the package upside down and a
bright pink packet of bubblegum slid out.
“The fun of working with you, Alex,” Smith-
ers said, “is adapting the things you?d expect
to find in the pockets of a boy your age. And
I?m extremely pleased with this one.”

“Bubblegum?”

135/390
“It blows rather special bubbles. Chew it for
thirty seconds and the chemicals in your
saliva react with the compound, making it
expand. And as it expands, it?ll shatter just
about anything. Put it in a gun, for example,
and it?ll crack it open. Or the lock on a
door.”

Alex turned the packet over. Written in yel-
low letters on the side was the word BUBBLE
0-7.

“What flavour did you make it?” he asked.

“Strawberry. Now, this other device is even
more dangerous and I?m sure you won?t
need it. I call it the Striker and I?d be very
happy to have it back.”

Smithers shook the package and a keyring
slid out to join the bubblegum on the desk. It
had a plastic figurine attached, a footballer
wearing white shorts and a red shirt. Alex
leant forward and turned it over. He found

136/390
himself looking at a three centimetre high
model of Michael Owen.

“Thanks, Mr Smithers,” he said. “But person-
ally I?ve never supported Liverpool.”

“This is the prototype. We can always do an-
other footballer next time. The important
thing is the head. Remember this, Alex.
Twist it round twice clockwise and once anti-
clockwise and you?ll arm the device.”

“It?ll explode?”

“It?s a stun grenade. Flash and a bang. A ten
second fuse. Not powerful
enough to
kill—but in a confined space it will incapacit-
ate the opposition for a couple of minutes,
which might give you a chance to get away.”

Alex pocketed the Michael Owen figure and
the bubblegum along with the mobile tele-
phone. He stood up, feeling more confident.
This might
surveillance

simple

be

a

137/390
operation, a paid holiday as Blunt had put it,
but he still didn?t want to go empty-handed.

“Good luck, Alex,” Smithers said. “I hope you
get on all right with the CIA. They?re not
really like us, you know. And heaven knows
what they?ll make of you.”

“I?ll see you, Mr Smithers.”

“I?ve got a private lift if you?re going down-
stairs.” As Smithers spoke, the six drawers of
the filing cabinet slid open, three going one
way,
to reveal a
brightly lit cubicle behind.

three going the other,

Alex shook his head. “Thanks, Mr Smithers,”
he said. “I?ll take the stairs.”

“Whatever you say, old boy. Just look after
yourself. And whatever you do, don?t swal-
low the gum!”

NOT SO SPECIAL AGENTS

They had a late breakfast at a café in Bayside
Marketplace, right on the quayside, with
boats moored all around them and bright
yellow and green water taxies nipping back
and forth. Tom Turner and Belinda Troy had
knocked on Alex?s door at ten o?clock that
morning. In fact, Alex had been awake for
several hours. He had fallen asleep fast, slept
heavily and woken too early—

the classic pattern of trans-Atlantic jet-lag.
But at least he?d had plenty of time to read
through the papers that Joe Byrne had given
him. He now knew everything about his new
identity—the best friends he had never met,
the pet dog he had never seen, even the high
school grades he had never achieved. And
now he was sitting with his new mother and
father watching
the

tourists

the

on

139/390
boardwalk, strolling in and out of the pretty
white-fronted boutiques that cluttered the
area.

The sun was already high, the glare coming
off the water almost blinding. Alex slipped
on a pair of Oakley Eye Jackets and the
world on the other side of the black iridium
lenses became softer and more manageable.
The glasses had been a present from Jack.
He hadn?t expected to need them so soon.

There was a book of matches on the table
with the words THE SNACKYARD printed
on the cover. Alex picked it up and turned it
over in his fingers. The matches were warm.
He was surprised the sun hadn?t set them
alight. A waiter in black and white, complete
with bow tie, came over to take the order.
Alex glanced at the menu. He had never
thought it possible to have so much choice
for breakfast. At the next table a man was
eating his way through a stack of pancakes
with bacon, hash browns and scrambled

140/390
eggs. Alex was hungry but the sight took
away his own appetite.

“I?ll just have some orange juice and toast,”
he said.

“Wholemeal or granary?”

“Granary. With butter and jam—”

“You mean jelly!” Troy paused until the
waiter had gone. “No American kid asks for
jam.” She scowled. “You ask for that at Santi-
ago Airport
in jail—or
worse—before you can blink.”

and we?ll be

“I wasn?t thinking,” Alex began.

“You don?t think, you get killed. Worse, you
get us killed.” She shook her head. “I still say
this is a bad idea.”

“How?s Lucky?” Turner asked.

Alex?s head spun. What was he talking
about? Then he remembered. Lucky was the
Labrador dog that the Gardiner family was

141/390
supposed to have back in Los Angeles. “He?s
fine,” Alex said.

“He?s being looked after by Mrs Beach.” She
was the woman who lived next door.

impressed. “Not

But Turner wasn?t
fast
enough,” he said. “If you have to stop to
think about it, the enemy will know you?re
telling a lie. You have to talk about your dog
and your neighbours as if you?ve known
them all your life.”

It wasn?t fair, of course. Turner and Troy
hadn?t prepared him. He hadn?t realized the
test had already begun. In fact, this was the
third time Alex had gone undercover with a
new identity. He had been Felix Lester when
he had been sent to Cornwall, and Alex
Friend, the son of a multimillionaire, in the
French Alps. Both times he had managed to
play the part successfully and he knew that
he could do it again now as Alex Gardiner.

142/390
“So how long have you been with the CIA?”
Alex asked.

“That?s
classified information,” Turner
replied. He saw the look on Alex?s face and
softened.

“All my life,” he said. “I was in the marines.
It?s what I always wanted to do, even when I
was a kid … younger than you. I want to die
for my country. That?s my dream.”

“We shouldn?t be talking about ourselves,”
Belinda said angrily. “We?re meant to be a
family.

So let?s talk about the family!”

“All right, Mom,” Alex muttered.

They asked him a few more questions about
Los Angeles while they waited for the food to
arrive. Alex answered on autopilot. He
watched a couple of teenagers go past on
skateboards and wished he could join them.
That was what a fourteen year old should be

143/390
doing in the Miami sunshine. Not playing
spy games with two sour-faced adults who
had already decided they weren?t going to
give him a chance.

The food came. Turner and Troy had both
ordered fruit salad and cappuccino—decaf-
feinated with skimmed milk. Alex guessed
they were watching their weight. His own
toast came—with grape jelly. The butter was
whipped and white and seemed to disappear
when it was spread.

“So who is the Salesman?” Alex asked.

“You don?t need to know that,” Turner
replied.

Alex decided he?d had enough. He put down
his knife. “All right,” he said. “You?ve made
it pretty clear that you don?t want to work
with me. Well, that?s fine, because I don?t
want to work with you either. And for what
it?s worth, nobody would ever believe you

144/390
were my parents because no parents would
ever behave like you two!”

“Alex—” Troy began.

“Forget it! I?m going back to London. And if
your Mr Byrne asks why, you can tell him I
didn?t like the jelly so I went home to get
some jam.”

He stood up. Troy was on her feet at the
same time. Alex glanced at Turner. He was
looking uncertain too. He guessed that they
would have been glad to see the back of him.
But at the same time, they were afraid of
their boss.

“Sit down, Alex,” Troy said. She shrugged.
“OK. We were out of line. We didn?t mean to
give you a hard time.”

Alex met her eyes. He slowly sat down again.

“It?s just gonna take us a bit of time to get
used to the situation,” Troy went on. “Turner
and me

145/390
… we?ve worked together before … but we
don?t know you.”

Turner nodded. “You get killed, how?s that
gonna make us feel?”

“I was told there wasn?t going to be any
danger,” Alex said. “Anyway, I can look after
myself.”

“I don?t believe that.”

Alex opened his mouth to speak,
then
stopped himself. There was no point arguing
with these people. They?d already made up
their minds, and anyway, they were the sort
who were always right. He?d met teachers
just like them. But at least he?d achieved
something now. The two special agents had
decided to loosen up.

“You want to know about the Salesman?”
Troy began. “He?s a crook. He?s based here
in Miami.

He?s a nasty piece of work.”

146/390
“He?s Mexican,” Turner added. “From Mex-
ico City.”

“So what does he do?”

“He does just what his name says. He sells
things. Drugs. Weapons. False identities.

Information.” Troy ticked off the list on her
fingers. “If you need something and it?s
against the law, the Salesman will supply it.
At a price, of course.”

“I thought you were investigating Sarov.”

“We are.” Turner hesitated. “The Salesman
may have sold something to Sarov. That?s
the connection.”

“What did he sell?”

“We don?t know for sure.” Turner was look-
ing increasingly nervous. “We just know that
two of the Salesman?s agents flew into Skel-
eton Key recently. They flew in but they
didn?t fly out again. We?ve been trying to
find out what Sarov was buying.”

147/390
“What?s all this got to do with the Russian
president?” Alex still wasn?t sure he was be-
ing told the truth.

“We won?t know that until we know what it
was that Sarov bought,” Troy said, as if ex-
plaining something to a six year old.

“I?ve been working undercover with the
Salesman for a while now,” Turner went on.
“I?m buying drugs. Half a million dollars?
worth of cocaine, being flown in from Co-
lombia. At least, that?s what he thinks.”
Turner smiled. “We have a pretty good rela-
tionship. He trusts me. And today just hap-
pens to be the Salesman?s birthday, so he in-
vited me to go for a drink on his boat.”

Alex looked across to the sea. “Which one is
it?”

“That one.” Turner pointed at a boat moored
at the end of a jetty about fifty metres away.
Alex drew a breath.

148/390
It was one of the most beautiful boats he had
ever seen. Not sleek, white and fibreglass like
so many of the cruisers he had seen moored
around Miami. Not even modern. She was
called Mayfair Lady and was an Edwardian
classic motor yacht, eighty years old,
like
something out of a black and white film. The
boat was one hundred and twenty feet long
with a single funnel rising over its centre.
The main saloon was at deck level, just be-
hind the bridge. A sweeping line of fifteen or
more portholes suggested cabins and dining
rooms below. The boat was cream with nat-
ural wood trimmings, a wooden deck and
brass lamps under the canopies. A tall,
slender mast rose up at the front with a
radar, the boat?s one visible connection with
the twenty-first century.

Mayfair Lady didn?t belong in Miami. She
belonged in a museum. And every boat that
came near her was
somehow ugly by
comparison.

149/390
“It?s a nice boat,” Alex said. “The Salesman
must be doing well.”

“The Salesman should be in jail,” Troy
muttered. She had seen the admiring Look in
Alex?s eyes and didn?t approve. “And one
day that?s where we?re going to put him.”

“Thirty years to life,” Turner agreed.

Troy dug her spoon into her fruit salad. “All
right, Alex,” she said, “let?s start again. Your
maths teacher. What?s her name?”

Alex looked round.
“Her name is Mrs
Hazeldene. And—nice try—but we learn
maths in England. Americans learn math.”

Troy nodded but didn?t smile. “You?re get-
ting there,” she said.

They finished their breakfast. The CIA agents
tested Alex on a few more details, then
lapsed into silence. They didn?t ask him
about his life in England, his friends, or how
he had stumbled into the world of MI6. They

150/390
didn?t seem to want to know anything about
him.

The skateboarders had stopped playing and
were slumped on the boardwalk, drinking
Cokes.

Turner looked at his watch. “Time to go,” he
muttered.

“I?ll stay with the kid,” Troy said.

“I shouldn?t be more than twenty minutes.”
Turner stood up, then slapped his hand
against his head. “Hell! I didn?t get the
Salesman a birthday present!”

“He won?t mind,” Troy said. “Tell him you
forgot.”

“You don?t think he?ll be upset?”

“It?s OK, Turner. Invite him out for lunch
another time. He?ll like that.”

Turner smiled. “Good idea.”

“Good luck,” Alex said.

151/390
Turner got up and left. As he walked away,
Alex noticed a man in a bright Hawaiian
shirt and white trousers coming from the op-
posite direction. It was impossible to see the
man?s
face because he was wearing
sunglasses and a straw hat. But he must have
been involved in some sort of terrible acci-
dent—his legs were dragging awkwardly and
there seemed to be no life in his arms. For a
moment he was right next to Turner on the
boardwalk. Turner didn?t notice him.

Then, moving surprisingly quickly, he had
gone.

Alex and Troy watched as Turner walked all
the way along to Mayfair Lady. There was a
ramp at the end of the jetty, leading up to
deck level. It allowed the crew to wheel sup-
plies on board. A couple of men were just
finishing as Turner arrived. He spoke to
them. One of them pointed in the direction
of the saloon cabin. Turner went up the ramp
and disappeared on board.

“What happens now?” Alex asked.

152/390

“We wait.”

For about fifteen minutes nothing happened.
Alex tried to talk to Troy but her attention
was fixed on the boat and she said nothing.
He wondered about the relationship between
the two agents.

They obviously knew each other well and
Byrne had told him they?d worked together
before.

Neither of them showed their emotions, but
he wondered if their friendship might be
more than professional.

Then Alex saw Troy sit up in her seat. He fol-
lowed her eyes back to the boat. Smoke was
coming out of the funnel. The engines had
started up. The two crewmen Turner had
spoken to were on the jetty. One of them un-
tied the boat, then climbed onboard. The
other one walked off.

153/390
Slowly, Mayfair Lady began to move away
from her mooring.

“Something?s gone wrong,” Troy whispered.
She wasn?t talking to Alex. She was talking
to herself.

“What d?you mean?”

Her head snapped round as she remembered
he was there. “It was a ten minute meeting.
Tom wasn?t meant to be going anywhere.”

Tom. It was the first time she had used his
first name.

“Maybe he changed his mind,” Alex sugges-
ted. “Maybe the Salesman invited him on a
cruise.”

“He wouldn?t have gone. Not without me.
Not without cover. It?s against company
procedure.”

“Then…”

154/390
“His cover?s been blown.” Troy?s face was
suddenly pale. “They must have found out
he?s an agent. They?re taking him out to sea
with them…”

She was standing up now but not moving,
paralysed with indecision. The boat was still
moving gracefully. Already a full half of its
length was projecting out beyond the jetty.
Even if she ran forward, she would never
reach it in time.

“What are you going to do?” Alex asked.

“I don?t know.”

“Are they going to…?”

“If they know who he is, they?ll kill him.” She
snapped the words as if this was somehow
Alex?s fault, as if it was a stupid question
that he should never have asked. And maybe
it was this that decided him. Suddenly, be-
fore he even knew what he was doing, he was
on his feet and running.

155/390
He was angry. He was going to show them
that he was more than the dumb English kid
they obviously thought he was.

“Alex!” Troy called out.

He ignored her. He had already reached the
boardwalk. The two teenagers he had seen
earlier were sitting in the sun, finishing their
drinks, and they didn?t see him snatch one
of their skateboards and jump onto it. It was
only as he pushed off, propelling himself
over the wooden surface towards the depart-
ing boat, that one of them shouted in his dir-
ection, but by then it was too late.

Alex was balanced perfectly. Snowboards,
skateboards, surfboards, they were all the
same to him. And this skateboard was a
beauty, a Flexdex downhill racer with ABEC5
racing bearings and kryptonic wheels. How
typical of Miami kids to buy only the best. He
shifted his weight, suddenly aware that he
had neither helmet nor knee-pads. If he

156/390
came off now, it was going to hurt. But that
was the least of his worries. The boat was
pulling away. Even as Alex watched, the
stern with its churning propellers slid past
the end of the jetty. Now the boat was at sea.
He could see the name, Mayfair Lady,
dwindling as it moved into the distance. In
seconds it would be too far away to reach.

Alex hit the ramp that the men had been us-
ing to load and unload the boat. He soared
upwards and suddenly he was in mid-air, fly-
ing. He felt the skateboard fall away from his
feet, heard it splash into the sea. But his own
momentum carried him forward. He wasn?t
going to make it!

The boat was moving too fast. Alex was
plunging down now, following an arc that
was going to miss the stern by centimetres. It
would bring him crashing down into the wa-
ter—and then what?

157/390
The propellers! They would slice him to
pieces. Alex stretched out his arms and
somehow his scrabbling fingers made con-
tact with the rail that curved round the back
of the boat. His body smashed into the metal
stern, his feet dipping into the water above
the propellers.

He felt the breath punched out of him.
Somebody on the boat must have heard. But
he couldn?t worry about that now. He would
just have to hope that the noise of the en-
gines had covered the collision. Using all his
strength, he pulled himself up and over the
rail. And then, finally, he was on the deck,
soaked to the knees, his entire body aching
from the impact. But he was onboard.

And miraculously, he hadn?t been seen.

He crouched down, taking stock of his sur-
roundings. The stern deck was a small, semi-
enclosed area, shaped like a horseshoe. In
front of him was the saloon cabin with a

158/390
single window facing back and the door a
little further down the side. There was a
stack of supplies underneath a tarpaulin and
also two large cans. Alex unscrewed one of
the lids and sniffed. It was full of petrol. The
Salesman obviously planned to be away for
some time.

The entire deck, both port and starboard,
was overshadowed by a canopy hanging
down on either side of the main saloon and
there was a wooden lifeboat suspended on
two pulleys above his head. Resting briefly
against the stern rail, Alex knew he was safe
provided nobody actually walked to the back
of the boat. How many crew members would
there be? Presumably there was a captain at
the wheel. He might have someone with him.
Looking up, Alex glimpsed a pair of feet
crossing the upper deck on the roof of the sa-
loon. That made three. There could be two or
three more inside. Six perhaps in total?

159/390
He looked back. The port of Miami was
already slipping away behind him. Alex got
up and slipped off his shoes and socks. Then
he crept forward, moving absolutely silently,
still nervous about being spotted from the
upper deck. The first two windows of the sa-
loon were closed but the third was open and
crouching below it he heard a voice. A man
was talking. He had a thick Mexican accent
and every time he spoke the letter S, he
whistled softly.

“You are a foolish man. Your name is Tom
Turner. You work for the CIA. And I am go-
ing to kill you.”

Another man spoke briefly. “You?re wrong. I
don?t know what you?re talking about.” Alex
recognized Turner?s voice. He glanced left
and right. Then, with his shoulders against
the cabin wall, he levered himself upwards
until his head reached the level of the win-
dow and he could look in.

160/390
The saloon cabin was rectangular, with a
wooden floor partially covered by a carpet
that had been rolled back—presumably to
avoid bloodstains. Unlike the boat, the fur-
niture was modern, office-like. There wasn?t
a great deal of it. Turner was sitting in a
chair with his hands behind his back. Alex
could see that some sort of parcel tape had
been used to tie his arms and legs. He had
already been beaten. His fair hair was damp
and blood trickled out of the comer of his
mouth.

There were two men in the cabin with him.
One was a deckhand in jeans and black T-
shirt, his stomach bulging out over his belt.
The other had to be the Salesman. He was a
round-faced man with very black hair and a
small moustache. He was wearing a three-
piece white suit, immaculately tailored, and
brightly polished leather shoes. The deck-
hand was holding a gun, a large, heavy auto-
matic. The Salesman was sitting in a cane

161/390
chair, holding a glass of red wine. He rolled it
in front of his nose, enjoying the aroma, then
sipped.

“What a delicious wine!” he muttered. “This
is Chilean. A Cabernet Sauvignon grown on
my own estate. You see, my friend, I am suc-
cessful. I have businesses all over the world.
People want to drink wine? I sell wine.
People want to take drugs? They are mad,
but that is no concern of mine. I sell drugs.
What is so wrong with that? I sell anything
that anyone wishes to buy. But, you see, I am
a careful man. I did not buy your story. I
made certain enquiries. The Central Intelli-
gence Agency is mentioned. And that is why
you find yourself here.”

“What do you want to know?” Turner rasped.

“I want to know when we are one hour out of
Miami because that is when I intend to shoot
you and dump you over the side.” The Sales-
man smiled. “That is all.”

162/390
Alex sank down again. There was no point
listening to any more. He couldn?t go into
the cabin.

There were two of them and only one of him.
And although he had a weapon, it wouldn?t
be enough. Not against a gun. He needed a
diversion.

Then he remembered the petrol. Glancing
quickly at the upper deck he prepared to go
back to the stern, then froze as the door of
the bridge opened and a man came out.
There was nothing Alex could do; nowhere
he could hide. But he was lucky. The man,
dressed in the faded uniform of a ship?s cap-
tain, had been smoking a cigarette. He
stopped long enough to throw the butt into
the sea, then went back the way he had come
without turning his head. It had been a close
escape and Alex knew it could only be a mat-
ter of time before he was noticed. He had to
move fast.

163/390
He ran on tiptoe to the petrol cans. He tried
tilting one of them but it was too heavy. He
looked around for a rag, couldn?t find one
and so took off his shirt, ripping it apart in
his hands. Quickly he pushed the sleeve into
the can, soaking it in petrol. Then he pulled
it out, leaving only the end still dangling in-
side; a makeshift fuse. What would happen
when he set fire to the petrol? Alex guessed
that the explosion would be enough to attract
the attention of everyone onboard but not
strong enough to kill anyone or sink the boat.
Since he was still going to be onboard, he
would just have to hope he was right.

He reached into his pocket and took out the
book of matches that he had been playing
with in the restaurant. Cupping his hand to
protect the flame from the breeze, he lit first
one match, then the whole book. He touched
the flame against the rag that had once been
his shirt. The whole thing was alight in a
second.

164/390
Running forward again, he returned to the
saloon cabin. He could hear the Salesman
still speaking inside.

“Another glass, I think. Yes. But then I?m
afraid I must leave you. I have work to do.”

Alex looked in. The Salesman was standing
at a table, pouring himself a second glass of
wine.

Alex looked back over his shoulder. There
was no one there. Nothing had happened.
Why hadn?t the petrol caught fire? Had the
wind blown out his makeshift fuse?

And then it exploded. A great mushroom of
flame and black smoke leapt into the air at
the back of the boat, snatched away instantly
by the wind. Somebody shouted. Alex saw
that the petrol had splashed all over both
decks. There was fire everywhere. The can-
opy right above his head was alight.
Whatever had been packed underneath the
tarpaulin was also blazing. More shouting.

165/390
Footsteps thudded towards the stern deck.
Now was the time to move.

“See what is happening!”

Alex heard the Salesman snap the command
and a second later the deckhand came racing
out.

He disappeared round the other side of the
cabin.

That just left the Salesman himself, on his
own with Turner. Alex waited a few seconds,
then stepped into the doorway, once again
reaching into his trouser pocket. Turner saw
him before the Salesman. His eyes widened.
The Salesman turned. Alex saw that he had
put down his glass and picked up a gun. For
a moment neither of them moved. The Sales-
man was looking at a fourteen-year-old boy,
barefoot and naked from the waist up. It ob-
viously hadn?t occurred to him that Alex
could be any threat to him, that it was this

166/390
boy who had set fire to his boat. And in that
moment of hesitation, Alex made his move.

When he brought his hand up, he was hold-
ing a mobile phone. He had already dialled
two nines before he?d gone in. He pressed
the button for a third time as he aimed with
the phone.

“It?s for you!” he said.

He felt the phone shudder in his hand and,
silently, the aerial spat out of the top, the
plastic peeling back to reveal a shining
needle. It travelled across the cabin and hit
the Salesman square in the chest. The Sales-
man had reacted fast, already bringing his
gun round. But a second later his eyes rolled
and he slumped to the floor. Alex jumped
over him, picked up a knife from the table
and went over to Turner.

“What the hell…?” the CIA man began. Alex
could see at once that he wasn?t badly hurt.
At the same time, his mood didn?t seem to

167/390
have improved. He looked from the phone to
the unconscious figure of
the Salesman.
“What did you do to him?” he asked.

“He got the wrong number,” Alex said. He
cut through the adhesive tape.

Turner got to his feet and snatched up the
gun that the Salesman had dropped. He
checked the clip. The gun was fully loaded.
“What happened?” he demanded. “I heard
an explosion!”

“Yeah. That was me. I set the boat alight.”

“What?”

“I set fire to the boat.”

“But we?re on the boat!”

“I know.”

Before Alex could say any more, Turner
moved, twisting round, snapping into com-
bat position, arms up, legs apart. There was a
stairwell at the far end of the cabin. Alex

168/390
hadn?t noticed it before. A figure had ap-
peared, coming up from below. Turner fired
twice. The figure crumpled back down. Turn-
er stopped. Black smoke was seeping into the
cabin. There was a second explosion and the
entire boat rocked as if seized by a sudden
squall. There was shouting outside on the
deck. Looking out of the window, Alex could
see flames.

“That must have been the second petrol
tank,” he said.

“How many tanks are there?”

“Just the two.”

Turner seemed almost dazed. He forced him-
self to a decision. “The sea…” he said. “We?re
going to have to swim.”

The CIA agent went first, edging sideways
out of the cabin. Suddenly the deck was full
of people. There were at least seven of them.
Alex wondered where they had all come

169/390
from. Two of them, young men in dirty white
shirts and jeans, were fighting the flames
with extinguishers.

There were two on the roof, another on the
deck. All of them were shouting.

Smoke was trailing into the sky behind the
boat. The lifeboat was ablaze. Part of the
canopy was on fire. At least nobody knew
quite what had happened. Nobody had seen
Alex come on board.

The explosions had taken them all by sur-
prise and all they cared about was getting the
fire under control. However, as Turner came
out of the cabin, one of the men on the upper
deck saw him.

He called out in Spanish.

“Move!” Turner shouted.

He ran for the edge of
followed.

the boat. Alex

170/390
There was
the deafening chatter of a
machine-gun and what was left of the canopy
above his head was torn to shreds. Bullets
smashed into the deck sending chips of wood
flying. A glass bulb exploded. Alex wasn?t
even sure who was firing. All he knew was
that he was trapped in the middle of smoke
and flames and bullets and a lot of men who
wanted him dead. He saw Turner dive over
the side. There was another burst from the
machine-gun and Alex felt the deck rip itself
apart centimetres from his bare feet. He
yelled out. Splinters slammed into his ankle
and heels. He spurted forward and threw
himself over the handrail. For what felt like
an eternity everything was chaos. He could
feel the wind racing over his bare shoulders.
There were more gunshots. Then he plunged
headfirst into the Atlantic and disappeared
beneath the surface.

Alex allowed the ocean to embrace him. After
the battlefield that Mayfair Lady had

171/390
become, its water was warm and soothing.
He swam down, a powerful breaststroke that
took him ever deeper. Something whizzed
past him and he realized that he was still be-
ing shot at. The further down he went, the
safer he would be. He opened his eyes. The
salt water stung but he needed to know how
far he was going. He looked up. Light
glimmered at the surface but there was no
sign of the boat. His lungs were beginning to
hurt. He needed to breathe. But still he
waited. He would have been happy if he
could have stayed underwater for an hour.

He couldn?t. With his body crying out for
oxygen, Alex kicked reluctantly for the sur-
face. He came up gasping, with water
streaming down his face. Turner was next to
him. The CIA agent looked more dead than
alive. Alex wondered if he had been hit, but
there was no sign of any blood. Perhaps he
was in shock.

“Are you all right?” Alex asked.

172/390
“Are you crazy?” Turner was so angry that he
actually swallowed water as he spoke. He
spluttered and fought to keep himself from
going under. “You could have gotten us
killed!”

“I just saved your life!” Alex was getting
angry himself. He couldn?t believe what he
was hearing.

“You think so? Look!”

With a sense of dread, Alex swivelled round
in the water. Mayfair Lady hadn?t been
destroyed.

The fire was out. And the boat was coming
back.

He had been underwater for perhaps ninety
seconds. In that time, the ship had continued
forward with all hands fighting the flames
and nobody at the wheel. The engine had
been at full throttle and it was now about five
hundred metres away. But the captain had

173/390
obviously returned to the bridge. The boat
was wheeling round. Alex could make out
four or five men standing at the bow.

All of them were armed. They had seen him.
One of them pointed and shouted. He and
Turner were helpless, floating in the water
with perhaps one weapon between them.
Soon the boat would reach them. They were
sitting targets, to be picked off like ducks in a
fair.

What could he do? He looked at Turner, hop-
ing the older man would produce something,
some rabbit out of the hat. Didn?t the CIA
have gadgets? Where was the inflatable
speedboat or the concealed aqualung? But
Turner was helpless. He?d even managed to
lose the gun.

Mayfair Lady completed her turn.

Turner swore.

174/390
The boat drew closer, slicing through the
water.

And then it exploded. This time the explo-
sions were huge, final. There were three of
them, simultaneous, in the bow, the middle
and the stern. Mayfair Lady was blown into
three quite separate pieces, the funnel and
main saloon heaving themselves out of the
ocean as if trying to escape from the rest of
the boat. Alex felt the Shockwave travel
through the water. The blast was deafening.
A fist of water smashed into him, almost
knocking him out. Pieces of wood, some of
them on fire, rained down all around. He
knew at once that nobody could have sur-
vived. And with that knowledge came a ter-
rible thought.

Was it his fault? Had he killed them all?

Turner must have been thinking the same
thing. He said nothing. The two of them
watched as the three sections of what had

175/390
once been a classic motor yacht sank and
disappeared.

There was the sound of an outboard motor.
Alex twisted round. A speedboat was racing
towards them. He saw Belinda Troy at the
wheel. She must have somehow command-
eered it and come after them. She was on her
own.

She helped Turner out of the water first, then
Alex. For the first time, Alex realized that he
couldn?t see land. He felt that it had all
happened so quickly. And yet Mayfair Lady
had managed to put several kilometres
between itself and the coast before it was
destroyed.

“What happened?” Troy asked. The wind had
caught her long hair and spread it all around
her.

She looked as if she was having hysterics. “I
saw the boat blow. I thought you were—” She

stopped and caught her breath.
happened?” she repeated.

176/390
“What

“It was the kid.” Turner?s voice was neutral.
He was still trying to catch up with the
events of the last few minutes. “He cut me
free…”

“You were tied up?”

“Yes. The Salesman knew I was with the
agency. He was going to kill me. Alex
knocked him out. He had some sort of cell
phone…” He was stating the facts, but there
was no gratitude. The boat rocked gently.
Nobody moved. “He blew up the boat. He
killed them all.”

“No.” Alex shook his head. “The fire was out.
You saw. They?d got the boat under control.
They were turning round, about to come
back—”

177/390
“For God?s sake!” The CIA man was almost
too tired to argue. “What do you think
happened?

You think one of the lights fused and Mayfair
Lady just happened to blow up? You did it,
Alex.

You set
happened.”

the gas alight and that?s what

Gas. The American for petrol. It was one of
the words they had tested him on at the Sn-
ackyard that morning. A century ago.

“I saved your life,” Alex said.

“Yeah. Thanks, Alex.” But Turner?s voice
was bleak.

Troy climbed behind the wheel and started
the engine. The speedboat turned and they
headed back towards the shore.

PASSPORT CONTROL

Alex said little at dinner that night. Although
the hotel had seemed empty earlier in the
day, he was surprised how many guests had
appeared for dinner in their loose skirts,
shirts and sun-tans, and he knew it would be
impossible to talk openly now.

They were sitting on the restaurant terrace
which overlooked the sea, eating fish—as
fresh as Alex had ever tasted—served with
rice, salad and black beans. After the intense
heat of the afternoon, the air was cool and
welcoming. Two guitarists,
lit by candles,
were playing soft Latin music. Cicadas
rasped and rattled in their thousands, hid-
den in the undergrowth.

The three of them talked like any family
would. The towns they were going to visit,
the beaches where they wanted to swim.
Turner told a joke and Troy laughed loud

179/390
enough to turn heads. But it was all fake.
They weren?t going anywhere and the joke
hadn?t been funny. Despite the food and the
surroundings, Alex found himself hating
every minute of the role he had been forced
to play. The last time he had sat down with a
family had been with Sabina and her parents
in Cornwall. It seemed a very long time ago
and this meal, with these people, somehow
turned the memory sour.

But at last it was over and Alex was able to
excuse himself and go to bed. He went back
to his room, swinging the door shut behind
him. For a moment he stood there with his
shoulders resting against
the wood. He
looked around him. Something was wrong.
He stepped forward carefully, his nerves
jangling. Someone had been there. His case,
which had been closed when he left, was now
open. Had someone from the hotel been in
and searched the room while he was at
dinner?

180/390
Were they still there now? He looked in the
bathroom and behind the curtains. No one.
Then he went over to the case. It took him a
few moments to realize that only the Game
Boy was missing.

So that was what had happened! Turner or
Troy must have somehow slipped into the
room while he was out. The Game Boy with
its hidden Geiger counter was central to their
mission. They had taken it back.

Alex undressed quickly and got into bed, but
suddenly he wasn?t tired. He lay in the dark-
ness, listening to the waves breaking against
the sand. He could see thousands of stars
through the open window. He had never
realized there were so many of them, nor
that they could shine so bright. Turner and
Troy returned to their room about half an
hour later. He heard them talking in low
voices but couldn?t make out what they said.
He pulled the sheet over his head and forced
himself to sleep.

181/390
The first thing he saw when he woke up the
next morning was a note pushed under his
door. He got out of bed and picked it up. It
was written in block capitals.

GONE FOR A WALK. THOUGHT YOU
NEEDED A REST. WE?LL CATCH UP
WITH YOU

LATER. MOM XXX.

Alex tore the note in half—and then in half
again. He scattered the pieces
in the
wastepaper basket and went out to breakfast.
It occurred to him that it was a strange set of
parents who would walk off, leaving their
son behind, but he supposed there were
probably plenty of families, with nannies and
au pairs, who often did the same. He spent
the morning on the beach, reading.

There were some other boys of about his own
age playing in the sea and he thought of join-
ing them. But they didn?t speak English and

182/390
seemed too self-contained. At eleven o?clock,
his

“parents” still hadn?t returned. Suddenly
Alex was fed up, sitting there on his own in
the grounds of the hotel. He was on an island
on the other side of the world. He might as
well see some of it!

He got dressed and set off into town.

The heat struck him the moment he stepped
outside the grounds of the hotel. The road
curved inland, away from the sea, following a
line of scrubland on one side and what
looked like a tobacco plantation—a mass of
fat, green leaves rising to chest height—on
the other. The landscape was flat but there
was no breeze coming in from the sea. The
air was heavy and still.

Alex was soon sweating and had to swat at
the flies that seemed determined to follow
him every step of the way. A few buildings,

183/390
sun-bleached wood and corrugated iron,
sprang up around him.

A fly buzzed in his ear. He beat it away.

It took him twenty minutes to reach Puerto
Madre, a fishing village that had grown into
a dense and cluttered town. The buildings
were an amazing jumble of different styles;
rickety wooden shops, marble and brick
houses, huge stone churches. Everything had
been beaten down and baked by the
sun—and sunlight was everywhere; in the
dust, in the vivid colours, in the smells of
spice and overripe fruit.

The noise was deafening. Radio music—jazz
and salsa—blasted out of open windows.

Extraordinary American cars, vintage Chev-
rolets and Studebakers like brilliantly col-
oured toys, jammed the streets, their horns
blaring as they tried to make their way past
horses and carts, motorized rickshaws, cigar-
ette sellers and shoe-shine boys. Old men in

184/390
vests sat outside the cafes blinking in the
sunlight. Women in tight-fitting dresses
stood languidly in the doorways. Alex had
never been anywhere louder or dirtier or
more alive.

Somehow he found himself
in the main
square with a great statue at the centre; a re-
volutionary soldier with a rifle at his side and
a grenade hanging from his belt. There must
have been at least a hundred market stalls
jammed into the square, selling fruit and ve-
getables, coffee beans, souvenirs, old books
and T-shirts. And everywhere there were
crowds, strolling in and out of the dollar
shops and the ice-cream parlours, sitting at
tables
colonnades,
queuing up in the fast food restaurants and
the paladares—tiny restaurants located in-
side private houses.

sweeping

beneath

There was a street sign bolted to a wall. It
read: PLAZA DE FRATERNIDAD. Alex had
enough
that.

translate

Spanish

to

185/390
Brotherhood Square. He somehow doubted
that he would find much brotherhood here.
A fat man in an old and dirty linen suit sud-
denly lurched up to him.

“You want cigars? The best Havana cigars.
But at cheap, cheap price.”

“Hey, amigo. I sell you a T-shirt…”

“Muchacho! You bring your parents to my
bar…”

Before he knew it, he was surrounded. Alex
realized how much he must stand out in this
crowd of dark, tropical people milling about
in their brightly coloured shirts and straw
hats. He was hot and thirsty. He looked
around him for somewhere to get a drink.

And that was when he saw Turner and Troy.
The two special agents were sitting at a
wrought iron table in front of one of the
smarter restaurants, shaded by a great vine
that
the

sprawled and tumbled over

186/390
pockmarked wall. A neon sign hung over
them, advertising Montecristo cigars.

They were with a man, an islander, obviously
deep in conversation. All three of them had
drinks.

Alex moved towards them, wondering if it
would be possible to hear what they were
saying.

The man they were talking to looked about
seventy years old and was dressed in a dark
shirt,
loose trousers and a beret. He was
smoking a cigarette which seemed to have
been pushed through his lips dragging the
skin with it. His face, arms and neck were
sun-beaten and withered.

But as he drew closer, Alex saw the light and
the strength in his eyes. Troy said something
and the man laughed, picked up his glass
with a hand that was all bone and threw back
the contents in one. He wiped the back of his
hand across his mouth, said something and

187/390
walked away. Alex had arrived just too late to
eavesdrop on the conversation. He decided
to make himself known.

“Alex!” As ever, Troy didn?t look glad to see
him.

“Hi, Mom.” Alex sat down without being in-
vited. “Any chance of a drink?”

“What are you doing here?” Turner asked.
Once again his mouth was a straight line. His
eyes were empty. “We told you to stay at the
hotel.”

“I thought this was meant to be a family holi-
day,” Alex said. “And anyway, I finished
searching the hotel
this morning. There
aren?t any nuclear weapons there, in case
you were wondering…”

Troy

looked

stared.

around
Turner
nervously. “Keep your voice down!” she
snapped, as if anyone could hear him in the
din of the square.

188/390
“You lied to me,” Alex said. “Whatever the
reason you?re here, you?re not just spying
on General Sarov. Why don?t you tell me
what this is really about?”

There was a long silence.

“What do you want to drink?” Troy asked.

Alex glanced down at Troy?s glass. It con-
tained a pale yellow liquid that looked good.
“What have you got?” he asked.

“A mojito. It?s a local speciality. A mixture of
rum, fresh lemon juice, crushed ice, soda and
mint leaves.”

“That sounds fine.
Without the rum.”

I?ll have the same.

Turner called a waiter over and spoke briefly
in Spanish. The waiter nodded and hurried
away.

Meanwhile, Troy had come to a decision. “All
right, Alex,” she said. “We?ll tell you what
you want to know—”

“That?s against orders!” Turner interrupted.

Troy looked angrily at him. “What choice do
we have? Alex obviously knows about the
Game Boy.”

189/390

“The Geiger counter,” Alex said.

Troy nodded. “Yes, Alex, that?s what it is.
And it?s the reason why we?re here.” She lif-
ted her own drink and took a sip. “We didn?t
want you to know this because we didn?t
want to frighten you.”

“That?s very kind of you.”

“We were ordered not to!” She scowled. “But
… all right, since you know so much, you
might as well know the rest of it. We believe
there?s a nuclear device hidden on this
island.”

“General Sarov…? You think he?s got a nuc-
lear bomb?”

“We shouldn?t be doing this,” Turner
muttered.

190/390
But this time Troy ignored him. “Something
is happening, here, on Skeleton Key,” she
went on.

“We don?t know what it is, but if you want
the truth, it actually frightens us. In a few
days? time, Boris Kiriyenko, the Russian
president, is arriving for a two-week vaca-
tion. That?s not such a big deal. He knew
Sarov a long time ago. They were kids to-
gether. And it?s not as if the Russians are
our enemies any more.”

Alex knew all this already. It was what Blunt
had told him in London.

“But recently, and quite by coincidence,
Sarov came to our attention. Turner and I
were investigating the Salesman. And we dis-
covered that among all the other things he?d
been selling, he?d managed to get his hands
on a kilogram of weapons grade uranium,
smuggled out of Eastern Europe. For what
it?s worth,
the biggest

is one of

this

facing the

191/390
nightmares
security services
today—the sale of uranium. But he?d done
it—and if that wasn?t bad enough, the per-
son he?d sold it to—”

“—was Sarov.” Alex finished the sentence.

“Yes. A plane flew into Skeleton Key and it
didn?t fly out again. Sarov was there to meet
it.” She paused. “And now, suddenly, we?ve
got a meeting between these two men—the
old general and the new president—and
there may be a nuclear bomb in the picture.
So you won?t be surprised to hear that there
are a whole lot of worried people in Wash-
ington. That?s why we?re here.”

Alex absorbed what he was being told. In-
side, he was seething. Blunt had promised
him two weeks in the sun. But it looked like
he?d been sent to the front line of World War
Three.

“If it is a bomb, what?s Sarov planning to do
with it?” Alex asked.

192/390
“If we knew that, we wouldn?t be here!” she
snapped. Alex looked at her closely. He was
amazed to see that she really was scared. She
was trying not to show it but it was there, in
her eyes and the tautness of her jaw.

“Our job is to find the nuclear material,”
Turner said.

“With the Geiger counter.”

“Yes. We need to break into Casa de Oro and
take a look around. That?s what we were
talking about just now.”

“Who was he? The man you were with?”

Turner sighed. He had already said much
more than he wanted to “His name is Garcia.
He?s one of our assets.”

“Assets?”

“That means he works for us,” Troy ex-
plained. “We?ve been paying him over the
years to keep us informed and to help us
when we?re here.”

193/390
“He has a boat,” Turner continued, “and
we?re going to need it because there?s only
one way into the Casa de Oro—and that?s by
sea. The house is built on a sort of plateau
right at the tip of the island. It?s an old sugar
plantation. They used to grow sugar cane
there and they?ve got an old mill that?s still
in full working order. Anyway, there?s only
one road that reaches it and it?s narrow,
with a steep drop down to the sea on both
sides. There are security men and a gate.
We?d never get in that way.”

“But by boat—” Alex began.

“Not by boat…” Turner hesitated, wondering
if he should go on. He looked at Troy, who
nodded. “We?re going to use scuba. You see,
we know something that Sarov may not.
There?s a way into the grounds of the villa
that goes past his defences. It?s a natural
fault line, a shaft inside the cliff that runs all
the way from the top to the bottom.”

194/390

“You?re going to climb it?”

“There are metal rungs. Garcia?s family has
been on the island for centuries and they
know every inch of the coastline. He swears
the ladder is still there. Three hundred years
ago it was used by smugglers to get from the
villa to the beach without being seen. There
was a cave at the bottom.

The shaft—they call
it the Devil?s Chim-
ney—runs all the way up and comes out
somewhere in the garden. That?s our way
in.”

“Wait a minute.” Alex was confused. “You
said you were going to use scuba.”

Troy nodded. “The water level has risen all
around the island and the entrance to the
cave is now submerged. It?s about twenty
metres underwater. But that?s great for us.
Most people have forgotten the cave is even
there at all. Certainly, it won?t be guarded.
We swim down in scuba gear. We climb the

195/390
ladder and get into the grounds. We search
the villa.”

“And if you find the bomb?”

“That?s not our problem, Alex. Our work will
be done.”

The waiter arrived with Alex?s drink. He
picked up the glass. Even the feel of it, cold
against his skin, came as a relief. He drank
some. It was sweet and surprisingly refresh-
ing. He set the glass down.

“I want to come with you,” he said.

“Forget it. No way!” Troy sounded incredu-
lous. “Why do you think I?ve told you all
this? Only because you know too much
already and I need you to understand that we
mean business. You have to keep out of the
way. This is not a child?s game. We?re not
zapping the bad guy on a computer screen!
This is the real thing, Alex. And you?re going

196/390
to stay in the hotel and wait for us to get
back!”

“I?m coming with you,” Alex insisted.
“Maybe you?ve forgotten, but this is meant
to be a family holiday. You dump me on my
own in the hotel a second time, maybe some-
body?s going to notice. Maybe they?re going
to start wondering where you are.”

Turner fiddled with the collar of his shirt.
Troy looked away.

“I won?t get in your way,” Alex sighed. “I?m
not asking to come scuba-diving with you. Or
climbing. I just want to be on the boat. Think
about it. If the three of us go together, it?ll
look more like a family cruise.”

Turner nodded slowly. “You know, Troy, the
kid has a point.”

Troy picked up her drink and gazed into it
moodily, as if trying to find an answer inside
the glass. “All right,” she said at last. “You

197/390
can come with us if that?s what you really
want. But you?re not part of this, Alex. Your
job was to help get us onto the island and if
you ask me, we didn?t even need you for
that. You saw the security at the airport, it
was a joke! But OK, since you?re here, you
might as well come along for the ride. But I
don?t want to hear you. I don?t want to see
you. I don?t want to know you?re there.”

“Whatever you say,” Alex sat back. He had
got what he wanted, but he had to ask him-
self why he wanted it at all. Given the choice,
he would have preferred to take the first
plane off the island and put as much distance
as possible between himself and the CIA and
Sarov and the whole lot of them.

But that was a choice he didn?t have. All Alex
knew was that he didn?t want to spend time
in the hotel on his own, worrying. If there
really was a bomb somewhere on the island,
he wanted to be the first to hear about it.
And there was something else. Turner and

198/390
Troy seemed confident enough about this
Devil?s Chimney. They had assumed that it
wasn?t guarded and that it would take them
all the way to the top. But they had been
equally confident when they had gone to the
Salesman?s birthday party, and that had al-
most got Turner killed.

Alex finished his drink. “All right,” he said.
“So when do we go?”

Troy fell silent. Turner took out his wallet
and paid for the drinks. “Straight away,” he
said.

“We?re doing it tonight.”

THE DEVIL’S CHIMNEY

« ^ »

It was late afternoon when they set out from
Puerto Madre, leaving the port with its fish
markets and pleasure cruisers behind them.
Turner and Troy were going to make the dive
while it was still light. They would find the

199/390
cave and wait there until sunset, then climb
up into Casa de Oro under cover of darkness.
That was the plan.

The man called Garcia had a boat that had
known the sea too long. It wheezed and
spluttered out of the harbour, trailing a cloud
of evil-smelling black smoke. Rust had
rippled and then burst through every surface
like some bad skin disease. The boat had no
visible name. A few flags fluttered from the
mast, but they were little more than rags,
with any trace of their original colours faded
long ago. There were six air cylinders lashed
to a bench underneath a canopy.

They were the only new equipment in sight.

Garcia himself had greeted Alex with a mix-
ture of hostility and suspicion. Then he had
spoken at length, in Spanish, with Turner.
Alex had spent the best part of a year in Bar-
celona with his uncle and understood

200/390
enough of the language to follow what they
were saying.

“You never talked about a boy. What do you
think this is? A tourist excursion? Who is he?
Why did you bring him here?”

“It?s none of your business, Garcia. Let?s
go.”

“You paid for two passengers.” Garcia held
up two withered fingers, every bone and
sinew showing through. “Two passengers …
that was what we agreed.”

“You?re being paid well enough. There?s no
point arguing. The boy?s coming and that?s
the end of it!”

After that, Garcia fell into sullen silence. Not
that there would have been any point talking
anyway. The noise of the engine was too
great.

Alex watched as the coastline of Cayo Esque-
leto slipped past. He had to admit that Blunt

201/390
had been right—the island was strangely
beautiful with its extraordinary, deep col-
ours; the palm trees packed together, separ-
ated from the sea by a brilliant ribbon of
white sand. The sun was hovering, a perfect
circle, over the horizon. A brown pelican,
clumsy and comical on the ground, shot out
of a pine tree and soared gracefully over their
heads. Alex felt strangely at peace. Even the
noise of the engine seemed to have drifted
away.

After about half an hour, the land began to
rise up and he realized they had reached the
north point of the island. The vegetation fell
back and suddenly he was looking at a sheer
rock wall that dropped all the way, without
interruption, to the sea. This must be the
isthmus that he had been told about, with
the road leading to the Casa de Oro some-
where at the top. There was no sign of the
house itself but, craning his neck, he could
just make out the top of a tower, white and

202/390
elegant, with a pointed red slate roof. A
watch-tower. There was a single figure
framed in an archway, barely more than a
speck. Somehow Alex knew that it was an
armed guard.

Garcia turned off the engine and moved to
the back of the boat. For such an old man, he
seemed very agile. He picked up an anchor
and threw it over the side, then hoisted a
flag—this one more identifiable than the oth-
ers. It showed a diagonal white stripe on a
red
the
international scuba-diving sign.

background. Alex

recognized

Troy came over to him. “We?ll go down here
and swim in to the coast,” she said.

Alex looked up at the figure in the tower.
There was a glint of sunlight reflecting off
something.

A pair of binoculars? “I think we?re being
watched,” he said.

203/390
Troy nodded. “Yes. But it doesn?t matter.
Dive boats aren?t allowed to come here but
they sometimes do. They?re used to it. The
shore is strictly off-limits but there?s a wreck
somewhere

… people swim to that. We?ll be fine,
provided we don?t draw attention to
ourselves. Just don?t do anything stupid,
Alex.”

Even now she couldn?t resist lecturing him.
Alex wondered what he would have to do to
impress these people. He said nothing.

Turner had taken off his shirt, showing a
hairless, muscular chest. Alex watched as he
stripped down to his trunks, then pulled on a
wetsuit which he had taken from a small cab-
in below.

Quickly the two CIA agents got ready, attach-
ing air cylinders to their buoyancy jackets—

204/390
BCDs—then adding weight belts, masks and
snorkels. Garcia was smoking, sitting to one
side and watching all this with quiet amuse-
ment, as if it really had nothing to do with
him.

At last they were ready. Turner had brought
a waterproof bag with him and he unzipped
it. Alex noticed the Game Boy sealed in a
plastic bag inside. There were also maps,
torches, knives and a harpoon gun.

“Leave it all, Turner,” Troy said.

“The Game Boy…?”

“We?ll come back for it.” Troy turned to
Alex. “Right, Alex,” she said. “Listen up!
We?re going to make an exploratory dive to
begin with. We?ll be gone about twenty
minutes. No longer. We need to find the cave
entrance and check there are no security
devices in operation.” She glanced at her
watch. It was only half past six. “The sun
won?t set for another hour,” she continued.

205/390
“We don?t want to spend that long sitting in
the cave, so we?ll come back to the boat for
the rest of our equipment, change tanks and
make a second journey back. You don?t have
to worry about anything. As far as the people
in the villa are concerned, we?re just tourists
doing a sunset dive.”

“I?m a qualified diver,” Alex said.

“The hell with that!” Turner cut in.

Troy agreed. “You talked your way onto the
boat,” she said. “Fine. Personally, I wish
you?d stayed in the hotel. But maybe you
were right about that, it might have raised
suspicions.”

“You?re not coming with us,” Turner said.
He looked at Alex coldly. “We don?t want
any more people killed. You stay here with
Garcia and leave the rest to us.”

The two agents made their all-important
buddy checks, each one looking over the

206/390
other?s equipment. No pipes twisted. Air in
the tanks. Weights and releases. Finally, they
went over to the side of the boat and sat with
their backs facing the sea. They both put on
their fins. Turner gave Troy the all-clear
sign: second finger and thumb forming an O,
with the other fingers raised. They lowered
their masks and rolled over backwards, dis-
appearing immediately into the depths of the
sea.

That was the last time Alex saw them alive.

He sat with Garcia on the gently rocking
boat. The sun was almost touching the hori-
zon and a few clouds, deep red, had intruded
into the sky. The air was warm and pleasant.
Garcia sucked on his cigarette and the tip
glowed.

“You American?” he asked suddenly, speak-
ing in English.

“No. I?m English.”

207/390
“Why you here?” Garcia smiled as if amused
to find himself alone at sea with an English
boy.

“I don?t know.” Alex shrugged. “How about
you?”

“Money.” The one word answer was enough.

Garcia came over and sat down next to Alex,
examining him with two dark eyes that were
suddenly very serious. “They don?t like you,”
he said.

“I don?t think so,” Alex agreed.

“You know why?”

Alex said nothing.

“They are grown-ups. They think they are
good at what they do. And then they find a
child who is better. And not only that. He is
an English child. Not an Americano!” Garcia
chuckled and Alex wondered how much he
had been told. “It makes them feel uncom-
fortable. It?s the same all over the world.”

208/390

“I didn?t ask to be here,” Alex said.

“But still you came. They would have been
happier without you.”

The boat creaked. A light breeze had sprung
up, rippling the flags. The sun was sinking
faster now and the whole sky was turning to
blood. Alex looked at his watch. Ten to sev-
en. The twenty minutes had passed quickly.
He scanned the surface of the ocean but
there was no sign of Turner or Troy.

Another five minutes passed. Alex was be-
ginning to feel uneasy. He didn?t know the
two agents well, but guessed they were
people who did everything by the book. They
had their procedures, and if they said twenty
minutes, they meant twenty minutes. They
had been underwater now for twenty-five. Of
course, they had enough oxygen for an hour.
But even so, Alex wondered why they were
taking so long.

209/390
A quarter of an hour later, they still hadn?t
come back. Alex couldn?t disguise his fears.
He was pacing the deck, looking left and
right, searching for the tell-tale bubbles that
would show them coming up, hoping to see
their arms and heads breaking the surface of
the water. Garcia hadn?t moved. Alex
wondered if the old man was even awake. A
full forty minutes had passed since Turner
and Troy had submerged.

“Something?s wrong,” Alex said. Garcia
didn?t answer. “What are we going to do?”
Still Garcia refused to speak and Alex be-
came angry. “Didn?t they have a back-up
plan? What did they tell you to do?”

“They tell me to wait for them.” Garcia
opened his eyes. “I wait an hour. I wait two
hours. I wait all night…”

in another ten or fifteen minutes

“But
they?re going to run out of air.”

210/390
“Maybe they enter the Devil?s Chimney.
Maybe they climb up!”

“No. That wasn?t their plan. And anyway,
they?ve left all their equipment behind.”
Suddenly Alex had made up his mind. “Have
you got any more scuba gear? Another
BCD?”

Garcia stared at Alex, surprised. Then he
slowly nodded.

Five minutes later, Alex stood on the deck
dressed only in shorts and a T-shirt, with an
oxygen cylinder strapped to his back and two
respirators—one to breathe through, the oth-
er spare—

dangling at his side. He would have liked to
put on a wetsuit, but he hadn?t been able to
find one his size. He would just have to hope
that the water wasn?t too cold. The BCD he
was wearing was old and it was too big for
him, but he had quickly tested it and at least
it worked. He looked at his instrument

211/390
console; pressure gauge, depth gauge and
compass. He had 3000psi in his air tank.
More than he would need. Finally, he had a
knife strapped to his leg. He probably
wouldn?t use it and would never normally
have worn it. But he needed the reassurance.
He went over to the side of the boat and sat
down.

Garcia shook his head disapprovingly. Alex
knew he was right. He was breaking the
single most critical rule in the world of
scuba-diving. Nobody ever dives alone. He
had been taught scuba by his uncle when he
was eleven years old and if Ian Rider had
been here now he would have been speech-
less with anger and disbelief. If you get into
trouble—a snagged air hose or a valve fail-
ure—and you don?t have a buddy, you?re
dead. It?s as simple as that. But this was an
emergency. Turner and Troy had been gone
for forty-five minutes. Alex had to help.

212/390
“You take this,” Garcia said suddenly. He
was holding an out of date dive computer. It
would show Alex how deep he was and how
long he had been down.

“Thanks,” Alex said. He took it.

Alex pulled his mask down, pushed the
mouthpiece between his lips and breathed
in. He could feel the oxygen and nitrogen
mix rushing into the back of his throat. It
had a slightly stale taste but he could tell it
wasn?t contaminated. He crossed his hands,
holding his mask and respirator in place,
then rolled over backwards. He felt his arm
knock against something on the side as the
world spun upside down. The water rushed
up to greet him and then his vision was
pulled apart like a curtain opening as he
found himself plunging into the water.

He had left enough air in the BCD to keep
him afloat and he made one last check, get-
ting his bearings on the coastline so that he

213/390
would know where to swim to and, more im-
portantly, how to get back. At least the sea
was still warm, although Alex knew that,
with the sun rapidly setting, it wouldn?t be
for long. Cold is a dangerous enemy for the
scuba-diver, sapping the strength and con-
centration. The deeper he went, the colder it
would get. He couldn?t afford to hang
around.

He released the air from the BCD. At once
the weights began to drag him down. The sea
rose up and devoured him.

He swam down, squeezing his nose and
blowing hard—equalizing—to stop the pain
in his ears.

For the first time he was able to look around
him. There was still enough sunlight to illu-
minate the sea and Alex caught his breath,
marvelling at the astonishing beauty of the
underwater world.

214/390
The water was dark blue and perfectly clear.
There were a few coral heads dotted around
him, the shapes and colours as alien as any-
thing it?s possible to find on the earth. He
felt completely at peace, the sound of his
own breathing echoing in his ears and each
breath releasing a cascade of silver bubbles.
With his arms loosely folded across his chest,
Alex let his fins propel him towards the
shore. He was fifteen metres down, about
five metres above the sea bed. A family of
brightly coloured groupers swam past him;
fat lips, bulging eyes and strange, misshapen
bodies. Hideous and beautiful at the same
time. It had been a year since Alex had last
gone diving and he wished he had time to en-
joy this. He kicked forward. The groupers
darted away, alarmed.

It didn?t take him long to reach the edge of
the cliff. The sea wall was of course much
more than a wall; a seething mass of rock,
coral, vegetation and fish life. A living thing.

215/390
Huge gorgonian fans—leaves made of a thou-
sand tiny bones—waved slowly from side to
side. Clumps of coral exploded brilliantly all
around him. A school of about a thousand
tiny silver fish flickered past.

There was a slither of movement as a moray
eel disappeared behind a rock. He glanced at
the dive computer. At least it seemed to be
working. It told him he had been down for
seven minutes.

He had to find the entrance to the cave. That
was why he was here. He forced himself to
ignore the colours and sights of the underwa-
ter kingdom and concentrate on the rock
face. The time he had spent taking his bear-
ings before the dive paid off now. He knew
more or less where the tower at the Casa de
Oro stood in relation to the boat and swam
in that direction, keeping the rock wall on his
left. Something long and dark flashed past
high above him. Alex saw it out of the comer
of his eye but by the time he had turned his

216/390
head it was gone. Was there a boat on the
surface? Alex went down another couple of
metres, searching for the cave.

In the end, it wasn?t hard to find. The en-
trance was circular,
like a gaping mouth.
This impression was heightened when Alex
swam closer and looked inside. The cave
hadn?t always been underwater and over a
period of time—millions of years—stalactites
and stalagmites had grown, needle-sharp
spears that hung down from the ceiling and
protruded up from the floor. As always, Alex
was unable to remember which was which.
But
there was
something menacing about the place. It was
like looking into the open mouth of some gi-
ant, undersea monster. He could almost ima-
gine the stalactites and stalagmites biting
down, the whole thing swallowing him up.

even from a distance

But he had to go in. The cave wasn?t very
deep and apart from the rock formations it
was empty, with a wide, sandy floor. He was

217/390
thankful for that. Swimming too far into an
underwater cave, at sunset, on his own,
really would have been madness. He could
see the back wall from the entrance—and
there were the first of the metal rungs! They
were dark red now and covered in green
slime and coral, but they were clearly man-
made, disappearing up the far wall and pre-
sumably continuing all the way to the top of
the Devil?s Chimney. There was no sign of
Turner or Troy. Had the two agents decided
to climb up after all? Should Alex try to
climb after them?

Alex was about to swim forward when there
was another movement just outside his field
of vision. Whatever he had seen before had
come back,
swimming the other way.
Puzzled, he looked up. And froze. He actually
felt the air stop somewhere at the back of his
throat. The last of the bubbles chased each
other up to the surface. Alex just hung there,

218/390
fighting for control. He wanted to scream.
But underwater, it isn?t possible to scream.

He was looking at a great white shark, at
least three metres long, circling slowly above
him. The sight was so unreal, so utterly
shocking, that at first Alex quite literally
didn?t believe his eyes.

It had to be an illusion, some sort of trick.
The very fact that it was so close to him
seemed impossible. He stared at the white
underbelly, the two sets of fins, the down-
turned crescent mouth with its jagged, razor-
sharp teeth. And there were the deadly,
round eyes, as black and as evil as anything
on the planet. Had they seen him yet?

Alex forced himself to breathe. His heart was
pounding. Not
just his heart—his whole
body. He could hear his breath, as if ampli-
fied, in his head. His legs hung limp beneath
him, refusing to move. He was terrified. That

219/390
was the simple truth. He had never been so
scared in his life.

What did he know about sharks? Was the
great white going to attack him? What could
he do?

Desperately, Alex tried to draw on what little
knowledge he had.

There were three hundred and fifty known
species of shark but only very few of them
were known to have attacked people. The
great white—carcharodon carcharias—was
definitely one of them. Not so good. But
shark attacks were rare. Only about a hun-
dred people were killed every year. More
people died in car accidents. On the other
hand, the waters around Cuba were notori-
ously dangerous. This was a single shark…

circling him, as

…still
moment…

if

choosing its

220/390
…and it might not have seen him. No. That
wasn?t possible. A shark?s eyes are ten times
more sensitive than a human being?s. Even
in pitch darkness it can see eight metres
away. And anyway, it doesn?t need eyes. It
has receptors built into its snout which can
detect even the tiniest electrical current. A
beating heart, for example.

Alex tried to force himself to calm down. His
own heart was generating minute amounts of
electricity. His
terror would guide the
creature towards him. He had to relax!

What else? Don?t splash. Don?t make any
sudden movements. Advice given to him by
Ian Rider came echoing back across the
years. A shark will be attracted to shiny met-
al objects, to brightly coloured clothes, and
to fresh blood. Alex slowly turned his head.
His oxygen cylinder had been painted black.
His T-shirt was white. There was no blood.
Was there?

221/390
He turned his hands over, examining him-
self. And then he saw it. Just above the wrist
on his left arm. There was a small gash. He
hadn?t even noticed it, but now he re-
membered catching his wrist on the side of
the boat as he fell backwards. A tiny amount
of blood, brown rather than red, twisted up-
wards out of the wound.

Tiny, but enough. A shark can smell one
drop of blood in twenty-five gallons of water.
Who had taught him that? He had forgotten,
but he knew it was true. The shark had
smelled him…

…and was still smelling him, slowly closing
in…

The circles were getting smaller. The shark?s
fins were down. Its back was arched. And it
was moving in a strange, jerky pattern. The
three textbook signs of an imminent attack.
Alex knew that he had only seconds between
life and death. Slowly, trying not to make any

222/390
disturbance in the water, he reached down.
The knife was still there, strapped to his leg,
and he carefully unfastened it. The weapon
would be tiny against the bulk of the great
white and the blade would seem pathetic
compared to those vicious teeth. But Alex felt
better having it
It was
something.

in his hand.

He looked around him. Apart from the cave
itself, there was nowhere to hide—and the
cave was useless. The mouth was too wide. If
he went inside, the shark would simply fol-
low him. And yet, if he made it to the ladder,
he might be able to climb it. That would take
him out of the water—

up the Devil?s Chimney and onto dry land.
True, he would surface in the middle of the
Casa de Oro.

But no matter how bad General Sarov might
be, he couldn?t be worse than the shark.

223/390
He had made his decision. Slowly, keeping
the shark in his sight, he began to move to-
wards the cave?s entrance. For a moment he
thought the shark had lost interest in him. It
seemed to be swimming away. But then he
saw that he had been tricked. The creature
turned and, as if fired from a gun, rushed
through the water, heading straight for him.
Alex dived down, air exploding from his
lungs. There was a boulder to one side of the
cave and he tried to wedge himself into a
corner, putting it between himself and his at-
tacker. It worked. The shark curved away. At
that moment, Alex lunged forward with the
knife. He felt his arm shudder as the blade
cut into the thick hide just under the two
front fins. As the shark flickered past, he saw
that it was leaving a trail of what looked like
brown smoke. Blood. But he knew that he
had barely wounded it. He had managed a
pinprick, nothing more. And he had probably

angered it, making
determined.

it

all

224/390
the more

Worse, he was bleeding more himself. In his
attempt to get out of the way, he had backed
into the coral, which had cut his arms and
legs. Alex felt no pain. That would come
later. But now he really had done it. He had
advertised himself: dinner, fresh and bleed-
ing. It was a miracle that the great white
hadn?t been joined by a dozen friends.

He had to get into the cave. The shark was
some distance away, out to sea. The cave en-
trance was just a few metres away to his left.
Two or three kicks and he would be in—then
through the stalactites and stalagmites and
onto the ladder. Could he do it in time?

Alex kicked with all his strength. At the same
time he was thrashing with his hands and
cursed noiselessly as he accidentally dropped
the knife. Well, it would do him no good any-
way. He kicked a second time. The entrance

225/390
to the cave loomed up in front of him. He
was in front of it now but not inside…

…And he was too late! The shark came hurt-
ling towards him. The eyes seemed to have
grown bigger. The mouth was stretched open
in a snarl that contained all the hatred in the
world. Its mouth was gaping, the dreadful
teeth slicing through the water. Alex jerked
backwards, twisting his spine. The shark
missed him by centimetres. He felt the surge
of water pushing him away.

Now the shark was in the cave, but he
wasn?t. It was turning to attack again, and
this time it wouldn?t be confused by the rock
wall and the boulders. This time Alex was
right in its sights.

And then it happened. Alex heard a metallic
buzz and, in front of his eyes, the stalagmites
rose out of the floor and the stalactites
dropped out of
teeth that
skewered the shark not once, but five or six

the ceiling,

226/390
times. Blood exploded into the water. Alex
saw the dreadful eyes as its head whipped
from side to side. He could almost imagine
the creature howling in pain. It was com-
pletely trapped, as if in the jaws of a monster
even more dreadful than itself. How had it
happened? Alex hung in the water, shocked
and uncomprehending. Slowly the blood
cleared.

And he understood.

Turner and Troy had been wrong a second
time. Sarov had known about the Devil?s
Chimney and he had made sure that nobody
could reach it by swimming through the
cave. The stalagmites and stalactites were
fake. They were made of metal, not stone,
and were mounted on some sort of hydraulic
spring. Swimming into the cave, the shark
must have activated an infra-red beam which
in turn had triggered the ambush. Even as he
watched, the deadly spears retracted, sliding
back into the floor and ceiling. There was a

227/390
hum and the body of the shark was sucked
into the cave, disappearing into a trap. So the
place even had its own disposal system! Alex
was beginning to understand the nature of
the man who lived in the Casa de Oro.
Whatever else he might be, Sarov left noth-
ing to chance.

And now he knew what had happened to the
two CIA agents. Alex felt sick. All he wanted
to do was get away. Not just out of the water
but out of the country. He wished he had
never come.

There was still a lot of blood in the water.
Alex swam quickly, afraid that it would at-
tract more sharks. But he paced himself,
carefully measuring his ascent towards the
surface. If a diver rises too quickly, nitrogen
gets trapped in the bloodstream causing the
painful and potentially lethal sickness known
as the bends. That was the last thing Alex
needed right now. He spent five minutes at
three metres?
safety

depth—a

final

228/390
stop—then came up for air. The whole world
had changed while he had been underwater.
The sun had rolled behind the horizon and
the sky, the sea, the land, the very air itself
had become suffused with the deepest crim-
son. He could see Garcia?s boat, a dark shad-
ow, about twenty metres away and swam
over to it. Suddenly he was cold. His teeth
were chattering—although they had probably
been chattering from the moment he had
seen the shark.

Alex reached the side of the boat. Garcia was
still sitting on the deck with a cigarette
between his lips but didn?t offer to help him
out.

“Thanks a bunch,” Alex muttered.

He slipped off his BCD—the oxygen tank
came with it—and heaved it onto the boat,
then pulled himself out of the water. He
winced. Out of the water, he could feel the
wounds that the coral had inflicted on his

229/390
limbs. But there was no time to do anything
about that now. As soon as he was standing
on the deck, he unhooked his weight belt and
dumped it to one side along with his mask
and snorkel. There was a towel in Turner?s
bag. He took it out and used it to rub himself
dry. Then he went over to Garcia.

“We have to go,” he said. “Turner and Troy
are dead. The cave is a trap. Do you
understand?

You have to take me back to the hotel.”

Garcia still said nothing. For the first time,
Alex noticed something about the cigarette
in the man?s mouth. It wasn?t actually lit.
Suddenly uneasy, Alex reached out. Garcia
fell forward.

There was a knife sticking out of his back.

Alex felt something hard touch him between
his shoulder blades and a voice, which
seemed to have trouble with the words it was

230/390
saying, whispered from somewhere behind
him.

“A little late to be out swimming, I think. I
advise you now to keep very still.”

A speedboat which had been lurking in the
shadows on the other side of the diving boat
roared to life,
lights blazing. Alex stood
where he was. Two more men climbed on-
board, both of them speaking in Spanish. He
just had time to glimpse the dark, grinning
face of one of Sarov?s macheteros before a
sack was thrown over his head. Something
touched his arm and he felt a sting and knew
that he had just been injected with a hypo-
dermic syringe. Almost at once, the strength
went out of his legs and he would have col-
lapsed but for the invisible hands that held
him up.

And then he was lifted up and carried away.
Alex began to wonder if it would have made
any difference if the shark had reached him

231/390
after all. The men who were carrying him off
the boat were treating him like someone who
was already dead.

THE CRUSHER

Alex couldn?t move.

He was lying on his back on a hard, sticky
surface. When he tried to raise his shoulders,
he felt his T-shirt clinging to whatever it was
underneath him. It was as if he had been
glued into place.

Whatever had been injected into him had re-
moved all power of movement from his arms
and legs. The bag still covered his head,
keeping him in darkness. He knew that he
had been loaded into the speedboat and
taken back to the coast. Some sort of van had
met him and brought him here. He had
heard footsteps and rough hands had
grabbed him, carrying him like a sack of ve-
getables. He guessed that three or four men
had been involved in the journey, but they
had barely spoken. Once he had heard the
same man who had spoken to him on the

233/390
boat. He had muttered a couple of words in
Spanish. But his voice was so indistinct, the
words so garbled, that Alex had found it hard
to understand what he was saying.

Fingers brushed against the side of his neck
and suddenly the bag was removed. Alex
blinked.

He was lying in a brightly lit warehouse or
factory; the first thing he saw was the metal
framework supporting the roof, with arc
lamps hanging down. The walls were bare
brick, whitewashed, the floor lined with ter-
racotta tiles. There was machinery on both
sides of him.

Most of it looked agricultural and a hundred
years out of date. There were chains and
buckets and a complicated pulley system that
fed into a series of metal wheels that could
have come out of a giant antique watch, and
next
earthenware
cauldrons. Alex twisted round and saw more

to them, a pair of

234/390
cauldrons on the other side and, in the dis-
tance, some sort of filtration system with
pipes leading everywhere. He realized now
that he was lying on a long conveyor belt. He
tried once again to get up or even roll off, but
his body wouldn?t obey him.

A man stepped into his line of vision.

Alex looked up into a pair of eyes that wer-
en?t actually quite a pair. They weren?t posi-
tioned correctly in the man?s face and one of
them was bloodshot. Alex wondered if it
could even see.

The man had been horribly injured at some
time. He was bald on one side of his head,
but not on the other. His mouth was slant-
ing. His skin was dead. In a beauty contest,
he wouldn?t even come a close second to the
great white shark.

There were a couple of dark, unsmiling
workers standing behind him. They were
shabbily dressed, with moustaches and

235/390
bandanas. Neither of
them spoke. They
seemed keenly interested in what was about
to happen.

“Your name?” The movements of the man?s
mouth didn?t quite match what he was say-
ing, so seeing him speak was a bit like watch-
ing a badly dubbed film.

“Alex Gardiner,” Alex said.

“Your real name?”

“I just told you.”

“You lied. Your real name is Alex Rider.”

“Why ask if you think you know?”

The man nodded as if Alex had asked a fair
question. “My name is Conrad,” he said. “We
have met before.”

“Have we?” Alex tried to think. Then he re-
membered. The man he had seen limping
down the boardwalk in Miami wearing

236/390
sunglasses and a straw hat! It was the same
man.

Conrad leaned forward. “Why are you here?”
he asked.

“I?m on vacation with my mom and dad.”
Alex decided it was time to pretend he was
just an ordinary fourteen year old. “Where
are they?” he demanded. “Why have you
brought me here?

What happened to the man on the boat? I
want to go home!”

“Where is your home?” Conrad asked.

live in LA. De Flores Street, west

“I
Hollywood.”

“No.” There was no doubt at all in Conrad?s
voice. “Your accent is very convincing, but
you are not American. You are English. The
people you came with were called Tom Turn-
er and Belinda Troy. They were agents of the
CIA. They are now dead.”

237/390
“I don?t know what you?re talking about.
You?ve got the wrong guy.”

Conrad smiled. At least, one side of his
mouth smiled. The other could only manage
a slight twitch. “Lying to me is stupid and a
waste of time. I have to know why you are
here,” he said. “It is an unusual experience to
interrogate a child, but it is one I shall enjoy.
You are the only one left. So tell me, Alex
Rider, why did you come to Cayo Esqueleto?
What were you planning to do?”

“I wasn?t planning to do anything!” Despite
everything, Alex thought it was worth one
last try.

He was still speaking with an American ac-
cent. “My dad?s a film producer. He?s got
nothing to do with the CIA. Who are you?
And why have you brought me here?”

“I am losing my patience!” Conrad took a
break, as if the effort of talking was too much
for him.

238/390

“Tell me what I want to know.”

“I?m on vacation!” Alex said. “I?ve already
told you!”

“You have told me lies. Now you will tell me
the truth.”

Conrad leaned down and picked up a large
metal box with two buttons—one red, one
green—

attached to a thick cable. He pressed the
green button. At once, Alex felt a jolt under-
neath him.

An alarm bell rang. Somewhere in the dis-
tance there was a loud whine as a machine
started up.

A few seconds later, the conveyor began to
move.

Using all his strength, Alex fought against
the drug that was in his system, forcing his
head up so that he could look over his feet.
What he saw sent a spasm of shock all the

239/390
way through him. His head swam and he
thought he was going to faint The conveyor
belt was carrying him towards two huge,
spinning grindstones about seven metres
away. They were so close to each other they
were almost touching. There was one under-
neath and one on top. The belt stopped just
at
the point where they met. Alex was
slumped helplessly on the belt. There was
nothing he could do.

He was moving towards the grindstones at a
rate of about ten centimetres a second. It
would take him a little over a minute to
reach them. When he did finally get there, he
would be crushed.

That was the death that this man had ar-
ranged for him.

“Do you know how sugar was produced?”
Conrad asked. “This place, where you are
now, is a sugar mill. The machinery used to
be steam-powered but now it is electric. The

240/390
sugar cane was delivered here by the
colonos—the farmers. It was shredded and
then placed on a belt to be crushed. After
that it was filtered. Water was allowed to
evaporate. Then the remaining syrup was
placed in cauldrons and heated so that it
formed crystals.” Conrad paused to draw
breath.

“You, Alex, are at the beginning of that pro-
cess. You are about to be fed into the crush-
er. I ask you to imagine the pain that lies
ahead of you. Your toes will enter first. Then
you will be sucked in one centimetre at a
time. After your toes, your feet. Your legs
and your knees. How much of you will pass
through before you are allowed the comfort
of death? Think about it! Whatever else it is,
I can promise you that it will not be sweet.”

Conrad raised the box with the two buttons.
“Tell me what I want to know and I will press
the red button. It stops the machine.”

241/390
“You?re wrong!” Alex shouted. “You can?t do
this!”

“I am doing this. And I am never wrong.
Please, do not waste any more time. You
have so little of it left…”

Alex lifted his head up again. The grind-
stones were getting closer with every second
that passed.

He could feel their vibration, transmitted
down the conveyor belt.

“How much did the agents know?” Conrad
demanded. “Why were they here?”

Alex slumped back. The pounding of the two
stones enveloped him. He looked past Con-
rad at the other two men. Would they let him
do this? But their faces were impassive.
“Please…!” he shouted. Then stopped him-
self. There was no mercy in this man. He had
seen that at once. He gritted his teeth, biting
back his fear. He wanted to cry. He could

242/390
actually feel the tears in his eyes. This wasn?t
what he wanted. He had never asked to be a
spy. Why should he be expected to die Like
one?

“You have perhaps fifty seconds more,” Con-
rad said.

And that was when Alex made up his mind.
There was no point in going silently to this
bloody and unspeakable death. This wasn?t a
World War Two film with him as the hero.
He was a schoolboy and everyone—Blunt,
Mrs Jones, the CIA—had lied to him and
played tricks on him to get him here. Any-
way, Conrad already knew who he was. He
had called him by his real name.

Conrad knew that Troy and Turner had been
American spies. There was only one piece of
information he could add. The CIA were
looking for a nuclear bomb. And why
shouldn?t he tell Conrad that? Maybe it
would be enough to stop him using it.

243/390
“They were searching for a bomb!” he cried
out. “A nuclear bomb. They know Sarov
bought uranium from the Salesman. They
came here with a Geiger counter. They were
going to break into the villa and look for the
bomb.”

“How did they know?”

“I don?t know…”

“Thirty seconds.”

The rumbling and pounding was louder than
ever. Alex looked up and saw the stones less
than three metres away. Air was rushing
between them and flowing over him. He
could feel the breeze cold on his skin. The
fact that he wasn?t tied down, that his arms
and legs were free, only made it all the
worse. He couldn?t move! The drug had
turned him into a piece of living meat on its
way to the mincer. Perspiration flowed down
the side of his face then followed the line of
his jaw and curved behind his neck.

244/390
“It was Turner!” Alex yelled. “He found out
from the Salesman. He was working
undercover.

They found out that he?d sold you the urani-
um and they came here looking for the
bomb.”

“Did they know the purpose of the bomb?”

“No! I don?t know. They didn?t tell me. Now
stop the machine and let me go.”

Conrad considered for a moment. The box
was still in his hand.

“No,” he said. “I don?t think so.”

“What?” Alex screamed the single word. He
could barely hear himself above the noise of
the grindstones.

“You?ve been a bad boy,” Conrad said. “And
bad boys have to be punished.”

“But you said—”

245/390
“I lied. Just like you. But of course I must kill
you. You are of no further use…”

Alex went mad. He opened his mouth and
screamed, trying to find the strength to sep-
arate himself from the conveyor belt. His
brain knew what it wanted. His body refused
to obey. It was useless. He jerked upwards.
His feet were moving ever closer to the spin-
ning stones. Conrad took a step back. He was
going to watch as Alex was fed through the
crusher. The two workers behind him would
clear up when it was over.

“No!” Alex howled.

“Goodbye, Alex,” Conrad said.

And then—another voice. In another lan-
guage. One that Alex didn?t understand.

Conrad said something. Alex could no longer
hear. The man?s lips moved but any sound
was snatched away by the roar of
the
machine.

246/390
Alex?s bare toes were being battered by the
wind that was forced through the stones.
They were five centimetres away from being
crushed. Four
three centi-
metres, two centimetres…

centimetres,

There was a gunshot.

Sparks. The smell of smoke.

The grindstones were still spinning. But the
conveyor belt had stopped. Alex?s feet were
jutting over the end of the belt. He could al-
most feel the spinning stone racing past his
toes.

Then the voice came again, speaking now in
English.

“My dear Alex. I?m so sorry. Are you all
right?”

Alex tried to reply with the worst swear-word
he knew. But it wouldn?t come. He couldn?t
even breathe.

With a sense of gratitude, he passed out.

247/390

***

“You will have to forgive Conrad. He is an ex-
cellent assistant and useful in so many ways.
But he can also be a little … over-
enthusiastic.”

Alex had woken up in the most magnificent
bedroom he had ever seen. He was lying on a
four poster bed opposite a floor-to-ceiling
mirror in an ornate gold frame. All the fur-
niture in the room was antique and wouldn?t
have been out of place in a museum. There
was a painted chest at the foot of the bed, a
massive wardrobe with elaborately carved
doors, a chandelier with five curving arms.
The shutters on the windows had been fol-
ded back to reveal a wrought iron balustrade
looking out over a courtyard.

The man, who had introduced himself as
General Alexei Sarov, was sitting on a chair
next to the mirror, dressed in a dark suit. His
legs were crossed. His back was completely

248/390
straight. Alex examined the face with its grey
hair and intelligent blue eyes. He recognized
his
and
knew—without knowing why—that it was the
general who had saved him.

sugar mill

voice

from the

It was dark outside. Alex guessed it must be
after midnight. Someone had dressed him in
a white nightshirt that came down to his
knees. He wondered how long he had been
asleep. And how long the Russian had been
waiting for him to wake up.

“Do you want something to eat?” That had
been his first question.

“No, thank you. I?m not hungry.”

“A drink then?”

“Some water…”

“I have some here.”

The water came in a silver jug, served in a
gleaming crystal glass. General Sarov poured
it himself, then handed it to Alex. Alex

249/390
reached out, grateful that the drug Conrad
had pumped into him had worn off while he
was asleep and that he could move his arms
again. He sipped. The water was ice-cold.
That was when Sarov began his apology,
speaking in faultless English.

“Conrad had no orders to eliminate you. On
the contrary, when I found out who you
were, I very much wanted to meet you.”

Alex wondered about that, but decided to ig-
nore it for the moment. “How did you find
out who I was?” he asked. There seemed no
point in denying it now.

“We have a very sophisticated security sys-
tem both here and in Havana.” The general
seemed uninterested in explaining more.
“I?m afraid you?ve had a terrible ordeal.”

“The people I came here with had a worse
one.”

250/390
Again the general raised a hand, brushing
aside the details. “Your friends are dead.
Were they your friends, Alex?” A brief pause.
“I was of course perfectly well aware of the
Devil?s Chimney when I first moved into the
Casa de Oro. I had a simple defence mechan-
ism constructed. Diving is prohibited on this
side of the island so when the occasional
diver is foolish enough to enter the cave, he
is only paying the price of his curiosity. They
tell me that a shark was killed there…”

“It was a great white.”

“You saw it?”

Alex said nothing. Sarov raised his hands,
resting his chin on the tip of his fingers.

“You are as remarkable as I was told,” he
continued. “I have read your file, Alex. You
have no parents. You were raised by an uncle
who was himself a spy. You were trained by
the Special Air Service, the SAS, and sent on
your first mission in the south of England.

251/390
And then, just a few weeks later, to France…
Some would say that you have had the luck
of the devil, but I do not personally believe in
the devil—or in God, for that matter. But I
believe in you, Alex. You are quite unique.”

Alex was getting tired of all this flattery. And
he couldn?t help but feel that there was
something sinister in it. “Why am I here?” he
asked. “What do you want with me?”

“Why you are here should be self-evident,”
Sarov answered. “Conrad wanted to kill you.
I prevented him. But I cannot allow you to
return to the hotel or, indeed, to leave the is-
land. You will have to consider yourself my
prisoner, although if the Casa de Oro is a
prison, I hope you will find it a comfortable
one. As to what I want with you…” Sarov
smiled to himself, his eyes suddenly distant.
“It is late,” he announced suddenly. “We can
talk about that tomorrow.”

He stood up.

252/390
“Is it true that you have a nuclear bomb?”
Alex asked.

“Yes.”

Part of the puzzle fell into place. “You bought
uranium from the Salesman. But then you
ordered Conrad to kill him! You blew up his
boat!”

“That is correct.”

So Alex had been right all along. He had seen
Conrad in Miami. Conrad had put some sort
of explosive device on the Mayfair Lady—and
it was that, not the fire, that had caused the
destruction and loss of life. Turner and Troy
had accused him unfairly.

“The nuclear bomb…” Alex said. “What are
you going to do with it?”

“Are you afraid?”

“I want to know.”

253/390
The general considered. “I will tell you only
this for now,” he said. “I do not imagine that
you know a great deal about my country,
Alex. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
as it was once called. The USSR. Russia, as it
is today. I do not suppose these things are
taught to you in your Western schools.”

if
“I know that communism is finished,
that?s what you mean,” Alex said. “And it?s a
bit late for a history lesson.”

“My country was once a world power,” Sarov
continued, ignoring him. “It was one of the
most powerful nations on the earth. Who put
the first man into space? We did! Who made
the greatest advances in science and techno-
logy? Who was feared by the rest of the
world?” He paused.

“You are right. Yes. Communism has been
driven out. And what do you see in its
place?” A flicker of anger appeared on his
face—there only for a second and then it was

254/390
gone. “Russia has become second-rate. There
is no law and order. The prisons are empty
and criminals control the streets. Millions of
Russians are addicted to drugs. Millions
more have AIDS. Women and children find
work as prostitutes. And all this so that the
people can eat McDonald?s and buy Levi
jeans and talk on their mobile telephones in
Red Square!”

General Sarov walked over to the door.

“You ask me what I am going to do,” he said.
“I am going to turn back the page and undo
the damage of the last thirty years. I am go-
ing to give my country back its pride and its
position on the world stage. I am not an evil
man, Alex. Whatever your superiors may
have told you, my only wish is to stop the
disease and to make the world a better place.
I hope you can believe that.

It matters very much to me that you should
come to see things my way.”

255/390
“You have a nuclear bomb,” Alex said, speak-
ing slowly. “I don?t understand. How is that
going to help you achieve what you want?”

“That will be revealed to you … in time. Let
us have breakfast together at nine o?clock.
Then I will show you around the estate.”

General Sarov nodded and left the room.

Alex waited a minute before slipping out of
bed. He looked out into the courtyard, then
went and tried the door. He wasn?t surprised
by what he found. Sarov had described the
Casa de Oro as a prison and he was right.
There was no way Alex could climb down in-
to the courtyard. And the bedroom door was
locked.

THE HOUSE OF SLAVES

Alex was let out of the slave house the follow-
ing morning. It seemed he was going to be
allowed to spend the day at liberty in the
Casa de Oro … although not on his own. An
armed guard had been assigned to watch
over him. The guard was in his twenties,
roughly shaven. He spoke no English.

He led Alex first to breakfast, which he had
on his own in the kitchen, not in the dining
room where he had eaten with Sarov. While
Alex ate, he stood at the door, watching him
nervously, as if he was a firework that had
just failed to go off.

“Como se llama usted?” Alex asked. What?s
your name?

“Juan…” The guard was reluctant to part
with even that piece of
information and

257/390
answered the rest of Alex?s questions with
monosyllables or silence.

It was another blazing hot day. The island
seemed to be caught in the grip of an endless
summer.

Alex finished his breakfast and went out into
the main hall, where a few of the servants
were, as ever, sweeping the floor or carrying
supplies into the kitchen. The guards were
still in place, up in the tower and around the
perimeter. Alex made his way to the stables.
He wondered if he would be allowed to go
riding again and was pleasantly surprised
when the guard brought out his grey for him,
already saddled and prepared.

He set off a second time, with Juan just a few
paces behind him on a chestnut mare. Alex
didn?t particularly want to go riding. His
thighs and backside were still sore from the
day before. But he was interested in the peri-
meter fence that Sarov had mentioned. He

258/390
had said that it was electrified. But even elec-
tric fences sometimes pass trees that can be
climbed. And Alex had already decided that
he had to find a way out.

He still had no idea what Sarov was plan-
ning. He had talked of changing the world.
Making it better, stronger, healthier. He ob-
viously thought of himself as some sort of
hero—but he was a hero armed with a nucle-
ar bomb. As he rode across the long grass,
Alex wondered what Sarov intended to do.
His first thought was that the Russian was
going to blow up an American city.

Hadn?t America once been Russia?s greatest
enemy? But that made no sense. Millions of
people would die but it wouldn?t change the
world. Certainly not for the better. Could his
target be somewhere in Europe? Or was he
perhaps going to use the bomb to blackmail
world governments into giving him what he
wanted? That seemed more likely. But at the
same time, Alex doubted it. Whatever he was

259/390
planning in some way involved the Russian
president.

I am going to turn back the page and undo
the damage of the last thirty years.

Suddenly Alex knew that despite their child-
hood friendship, Sarov hated the Russian
president and wanted to take his place. That
was what this was all about. A new Russia
that would once again be a world power.
With Sarov at its head.

And he was going to achieve it with a single
nuclear blast.

Alex had to escape. He had to tell the CIA
that Turner and Troy had been killed and
that Sarov did have a bomb. Once they knew
that, they would take over. And he wanted to
put as many kilometres between himself and
the Casa de Oro as he could. Sarov?s feelings
for him, his desire to adopt him, bothered
him as much as anything else. The old man
was slightly mad. True, Sarov had saved his

260/390
life. But it was Sarov who had put his life in
danger in the first place. Despite the heat of
the morning, Alex shivered. This whole ad-
venture had turned into something that was
rapidly spinning out of control.

They had reached the edge of the plantation,
this time on the side away from the sea. And
there, sure enough, was the fence—about five
metres high, solid steel, with a smaller fence
coming up to chest level on either side. There
were large red signs with the single word
PELIGRO printed in white letters. Even
without the warning, the fence reeked of
danger. There was a low humming that
seemed to be coming from the ground. Alex
noticed the charred and broken skeleton of a
bird hanging on the wire. It must have flown
into the fence and been killed instantly. Well,
one thing was certain. He wasn?t going to
climb over. The fence stretched through
grassland with barely a single tree in sight.

261/390
Alex turned his horse towards the bottom
end of the plantation and the entrance gate.
Maybe he would be able to find a way
through there. It took them about half an
hour to reach it, riding at walking pace. The
fence continued all the way. The entrance
was marked by a crumbling stone guard-
house with no glass in the windows and a
door hanging half off its hinges. There were
two men inside and a third with a machine-
gun standing beside a barrier. As Alex
reached them, a car passed through. One of
the limousines that he had seen the night be-
fore was leaving the compound. That gave
him an idea. There was only one way out of
here and that was in a car.

Presumably the president?s men would be
making several
journeys. That might give
him a chance…

They rode back to the stables and dismoun-
ted. With Juan a few steps behind him, Alex
walked back into the house. Almost at once

262/390
he heard voices coming from the other side,
and the splash of water. He crossed the inner
courtyard past
the fountain and went
through an archway. There was a swimming
pool on the other side, long and rectangular,
with palm trees growing on both sides, cast-
ing natural shadows over the tables and sun-
loungers. In the distance he saw a newly con-
structed tennis court. There were changing
rooms, a sauna, an outside bar. From the
back,
the Casa de Oro looked like the
playpen of a multi-millionaire.

Sarov was sitting at a table with the presid-
ent, both of them holding drinks; water for
Sarov, a cocktail for his guest. The president
had changed into red shorts and a flowery
short-sleeved shirt that hung loosely off his
slight frame. There were four men standing
close to him. It was obvious that they were
the presidential bodyguard. The men were
huge, dressed in black, with uniform
sunglasses and a coil of wire disappearing

263/390
into their ears. There was something almost
ludicrous about the scene. The little man in
his holiday clothes. The giant bodyguards.
Alex looked at the pool. There were three
strikingly attractive women sitting on the
side, their feet dangling in the water. They
were all in their twenties, wearing bikinis.
They looked local. Alex was surprised to see
them. He had thought Sarov too coldblooded
to enjoy such company. Or had they been in-
vited here for the president?

Alex wondered if he was meant to be in this
part of the grounds and was about to leave
when Sarov saw him and waved a hand, call-
ing him over. With a sense of growing curios-
ity, Alex walked over. Sarov spoke quickly to
the president, who nodded and smiled.

“Good morning, Alex!” Sarov seemed unusu-
ally cheerful. “I understand you went out rid-
ing again. Please let me introduce you to my
old friend, Boris Kiriyenko, the president of
Russia.

264/390

Boris, this is the boy I was telling you about.”

The Russian president reached out and took
Alex?s hand. Alex could smell the alcohol on
his breath. Whatever he was drinking in the
cocktail, he?d had too much of it. “It is a
pleasure,” he said, in heavily accented Eng-
lish. He pointed a finger at Alex?s face and
broke into Russian.

Alex heard the name Vladimir mentioned
twice.

Sarov answered briefly, then translated for
Alex. “He says that you remind him of my
son.” He smiled. “Would you like to swim,
Alex? You look as if you need it.”

Alex glanced at the three girls. “Unusual life-
guards,” he said.

Sarov laughed. “Some company for the pres-
ident. He is, after all, on holiday, although
unfortunately we do have a little work to do.
Our
television station is naturally

local

265/390
interested that we have such a distinguished
visitor and Boris has agreed to give a brief
interview. The crew will be here any minute
now.”

The president nodded but Alex wasn?t sure if
he?d understood.

“You can have the pool to yourself. We?re
going into Santiago after lunch, but I hope
you?ll join us for dinner, Alex. The chef has
planned a special surprise for the main
course.”

There was a movement at the archway lead-
ing into the house. Conrad had appeared and
with him was a short, serious-looking wo-
man in a drab olive-green dress. There were
two men behind her with cameras and light-
ing equipment.

“Ah! Here they are!” Sarov turned back to
the president
and suddenly Alex was
forgotten.

266/390
He stripped to his swimming shorts and
dived into the pool. After the long horse ride
the water was cool and refreshing. He no-
ticed the three girls watching him as he
swam past. One of them winked at him and
another giggled. Meanwhile,
the camera
crew was setting up its equipment in the
shade of the palm trees. The Russian presid-
ent waved a hand and one of his bodyguards
brought over another cocktail. Alex was sur-
prised that such an insignificant-looking
man could be the head of a huge country. But
then, he thought, most politicians are small
and shabby, the sort of people who have
been bullied at school. That?s why they be-
come politicians.

Alex put him out of his thoughts and concen-
trated on his swimming. In his mind he went
over what Sarov had just said. They were
driving into the city after lunch. That meant
the cars would be leaving the compound. It
was his only chance. Alex knew that there

267/390
was no way off the island. The moment he
was found missing,
the alarm would be
raised. Every guard at the airport would be
on the lookout for him and he doubted he
would be able to get on a boat. But if he
could at least find a telephone that worked
without an access code, he would be able to
get in touch with the American mainland and
they would send someone to pull him out.

He finished his eighth length and twisted
round for a ninth. The Russian president was
sitting in a chair, being wired for sound.
Juan, Alex?s personal guard, was waiting for
him at the other end of the pool. Alex sighed.
He was going to have to do something about
Juan.

The television interview began. Sarov was
watching carefully and, again, Alex got the
impression that there was more to all this
than met the eye.

268/390
He pulled himself out of the pool and went
back to his quarters to get changed.

Alex wore another pair of shorts and an aer-
tex shirt, both of them chosen because they
were neutral colours, allowing him to blend
in with the background. In his pocket he had
a stick of the bubblegum that Smithers had
given him. If everything went according to
plan, he was going to need it.

Juan was standing outside the room. Alex
was suddenly nervous about what he was go-
ing to do.

After all, Sarov had already warned him what
would happen if he tried to escape. He would
be shot—or at the very least, whipped. But
then he thought of the nuclear bomb. Sarov
had to be stopped. His mind was made up.

He stopped suddenly and groaned. His
whole face contorted with pain and he
staggered to one side, putting out a hand to
stop himself falling. Juan started forward,

269/390
entering the room with a look of concern. At
that moment, Alex straightened up. His foot
shot out in a perfectly timed roundhouse
kick that slammed into the soft flesh of the
man?s stomach. Juan didn?t even cry out.

With all the breath knocked out of him, he
crumpled to the ground and lay still. Not for
the first time, Alex thanked the five years?
training that had given him a black
belt—first grade Dan—in karate. Now he
moved fast. He took the sheet off the bed and
tore it into strips. He tied the man?s hands
and feet,
then gagged him. Finally, he
slipped out of the room, locking it behind
him. It would be hours before the guard was
found. By that time he would be away.

He came out of the barracon. The black lim-
ousines were still parked in front of the villa,
waiting for the president and his men to
leave. There was nobody in sight. Alex sprin-
ted forward. Sarov had allowed him to
wander
the

grounds

of

around

the

270/390
plantation, but only if he was accompanied.
If anyone saw him without his guard, they
might guess what had happened. He reached
the edge of the house and stopped, breath-
less, his back against the wall. Even the short
run had made him sweat in the intense heat
of the afternoon. He examined the cars.
There were three of them. The one that had
left earlier that morning still hadn?t come
back. The question was, when the president
went into Santiago, which one would he
take? Or would all three accompany him?

Alex was about to dart forward when he
heard footsteps approaching round the side
of the house.

It was either guards or workers—the moment
they turned the corner, they would see him.
There was a narrow door to one side. He
hadn?t noticed it before. He fumbled for the
handle.

271/390
Fortunately, it wasn?t locked. Just as two
men in military dress appeared a few metres
away, both armed, he slipped inside, closing
the door behind him.

The chill of an air-conditioning system
brushed over him. He looked around. He was
in a part of the house that looked completely
different to the rest. Here, the wooden floors
and antique furniture had given way to a hi-
tech, modern look. Halogen lighting led the
way down a short corridor with glass doors
on either side. Intrigued, Alex crept forward.
He came to the first door and looked inside.

There were two technicians sitting gazing at
a bank of TV screens. The room wasn?t large
and looked like an editing suite in a televi-
sion studio. Alex eased the door open. There
was no chance that the technicians would
hear him. They were both wearing head-
phones, plugged into the machinery in front
of them. Alex looked at the screens.

272/390
Every room in the main house was under ob-
servation. He recognized at once the room in
which he had woken up. There was the kit-
chen, the dining room, the main courtyard
with two of the president?s men strolling
across. He turned to another screen and
stared. He was watching himself swimming
lengths in the pool. That had been recorded
too. And there was Sarov, sitting with his
glass of water while, on the screen next to
him, the president gave his interview to the
crew that Alex had seen arrive.

It took Alex a moment to work out exactly
what he was seeing. Everything was being re-
corded and edited. That was what the two
technicians were doing now. The arrival of
Boris Kiriyenko was playing on one screen.
Next to it, the president emptied a glass of
brandy, presumably the night before. On a
third screen, the girls that Alex had seen at
the swimming pool were introduced to him.
They were simpering and smiling in low-cut

273/390
dresses that left little to the imagination.
Had he taken them to his room? If so, that
would doubtless have been recorded too.

An image flickered. And there was the pres-
ident giving his interview. One of the techni-
cians must have been given the footage taken
by the woman in the drab green dress. Kiriy-
enko was talking directly to the camera in
the manner of a thousand politicians on
Newsnight or Panorama.

Totally serious—although he looked a little
foolish in his flowery shirt. On the screen
next to this one, the same Kiriyenko swam in
the pool with one of the girls.

What did it all mean? Why did Sarov want
this? Was the Casa de Oro nothing more
than an elaborate, honeyed trap into which
the president of Russia had unwittingly
strayed?

couldn?t

Alex
longer.
Everything he saw made it more urgent for

any

stay

there

274/390
him to get out and warn the Americans. He
was afraid he was going to miss the depar-
ture of the cars—and there wouldn?t be a
second chance.

He opened the door again and looked out-
side. The cars were still there but the guards
had gone.

He looked at his watch. It was two o?clock. If
lunch hadn?t finished already, it would do so
shortly.

It had to be now! He ran forward to the
nearest car and felt for the boot release. Was
it going to be locked? His thumb found the
silver button and pressed and, to his relief,
the boot opened. It was a big car with plenty
of room. He threw himself
then
reached up and pulled the lid back down,
locking it. At once he was trapped in pitch
darkness and he had to force himself not to
panic. It was like being buried alive. He tried
to relax. This was going to work. Provided

inside,

275/390
nobody opened the boot to put luggage in, he
wouldn?t be seen. The limousine would drive
him out of the plantation and when they
were parked in Santiago, he would make his
escape.

Of course, the most difficult part was still to
come. Alex couldn?t see out of the car. He
couldn?t even see his own hand in front of
his face. He was totally blind. He would
simply have to guess when the driver and his
passengers had gone and hope for the best. It
was also impossible to open the boot from
the inside. It was for this reason that Alex
had brought along the gum. He would
choose the moment and use the gum to blow
his way out. With a bit of luck, he would slip
away into the crowd before anyone realized
what had happened.

But already he was wondering if this had
been a good idea. It was hot inside the boot.
He could imagine the sun beating down on

276/390
the car, and realized that he had locked him-
self into an oven.

Sweat was oozing out of every pore. His
clothes were already sodden and he could
hear it dripping onto the metal surface be-
neath him. How much air was there in the
trunk? If Sarov didn?t make a move soon,
he?d have to blow the car open while it was
still
the
in the
consequences.

compound and face

He fought down the panic and tried to
breathe as shallowly as he could. His heart
was thudding in his ears. He could feel the
muscle hard at work in his chest as it
pumped blood around his body. The veins in
his neck and pulses were beating in rhythm.
He wanted to stretch his legs but he didn?t
dare move in case he rocked the car. The
minutes ticked by—and then he heard voices.

There was the echoing clunk of a car door
opening and the whole vehicle shifted from

277/390
side to side as its passengers got in. Curled
up in a foetal position, Alex waited for the
boot to be thrown open, but it seemed that
the president, or whoever was in the lim-
ousine, had decided not to bring any bag-
gage. The car engine started up. Alex felt the
vibrations and then, suddenly, they were
moving, with Alex being jolted up and down
as they started over the makeshift road.

After only about a minute they began to slow
down again and Alex knew that they must be
approaching the gate and checkpoint. That
was another worry. Would the guards search
the car?

But he had already seen one limousine leave
the villa that morning, and although the
guards had been there he hadn?t seen any-
one open the boot. The car had stopped. Alex
didn?t move.

Everything was black. He heard voices as if
in the far distance. Somebody shouted

278/390
something but he couldn?t make out a word
they said. The car seemed to have been there
for ever. Why was it taking so long? Get on
with it! Alex was finding it harder and harder
to breathe. It felt as if the air was already
running out.

And then the car started forward and he let
out a sigh of relief. He could imagine the bar-
rier rising to let them through. The Casa de
Oro would be behind them now. How far was
it to Santiago? How would he know for sure
when they were there?

The car stopped again.

The boot opened.

Cruel sunlight came rushing in. Alex blinked,
putting a hand up to protect himself.

“Get out!” a voice said, in English.

Alex climbed out, soaking wet with his own
perspiration. Sarov was standing in front of
him.

279/390
Conrad was next to him, holding an auto-
matic pistol, not even trying to hide the
pleasure in his eyes. Alex looked around. The
car hadn?t even left the compound. It had
simply rolled forward and turned round.
That had been the movement he had felt.
There were two guards watching him, their
faces blank. One of them was holding a
device that looked a little like a megaphone,
the sort teachers used at sports days. It was
connected by a long wire to a box just inside
the building.

“If you had wanted to visit Santiago, you had
only to ask,” Sarov said. “But I don?t think
you wanted to visit the city. I think you were
running away.”

Alex said nothing.

“Where is Juan?” Sarov asked.

Alex still didn?t speak.

280/390
Sarov gazed at the boy. He seemed pained, as
if he didn?t understand why Alex had dis-
obeyed him and didn?t know quite what to
do. “You disappoint me, Alex,” he said, at
length. “You were down at the cave. You saw
the extent of my security arrangements
there. Did you really think for a single
minute that I would allow a car to drive in or
out of this compound without knowing ex-
actly who or what was inside?”

He suddenly reached out and took the mega-
phone device from the guard. He pointed it
at Alex?s chest and pressed a button. At
once, Alex heard a thumping sound that
echoed through the air. It took him a second
or two to realize that it was his own heart,
amplified and transmitted out of speaker
system hidden somewhere inside the guard
house.

“The car was scanned at the barrier,” Sarov
explained. “Every car is scanned at the barri-
er, using the machine I am holding now. A

281/390
sophisticated sensor. This is what the guard
heard. You can hear it now.”

Thud … thud … thud…

Alex listened to his own heart.

Sarov was suddenly angry. Nothing in his
face had changed, but his pale blue eyes had
turned to ice and there was a dreadful dead-
ness about him, as if his own life had sud-
denly been drained away. “Do you not re-
member what I told you?” he whispered. “If
you tried to escape, you would be shot. Con-
rad very much wishes to shoot you. He be-
lieves I am a fool to have you here as my
guest. He is right.”

Conrad stepped forward, the gun raised.

Thud … thud … thud … thud…

Alex?s heart was the animal inside him, bey-
ond his control, responding to the fear he
felt. There was nothing he could do to hide it.

282/390
The heart was beating louder and faster,
echoing out of the speakers.

“I don?t understand you, Alex. Have you no
idea what I?m offering you? Did you not hear
a word that I said? I offer you my protection
and you make an enemy of me! I want you to
be my son, but you force me to destroy you
instead.”

Conrad touched the gun against Alex?s
heart.

Thudthudthudthudthudthudthud…

“Listen to the sound of your own terror. Do
you hear it? And when you hear silence—it
could be just a few seconds from now—that
is when you will know you have died.”

Conrad?s finger tightened on the trigger.

Then Sarov turned off the sensor.

The heartbeat stopped.

283/390
Alex felt as if he had been shot. The sudden
silence hit him like a hammer blow. Like a
bullet from a gun. He fell to his knees, hol-
lowed out, barely able to breathe. He knelt
there in the dust, his hands at his sides. He
no longer had the strength to stand up. Sarov
looked at him and now there was only sad-
ness in his face.

“He has learned his lesson,” he said. “Take
him back to his room.”

He put down the sensor and, turning his
back on the still kneeling boy, slowly climbed
back into the car.

THE NUCLEAR DUSTBIN

At seven o?clock that evening, the door of
Alex?s cell opened and Conrad stood there,
wearing a suit and tie. The smart clothes
made his half-bald head, ruined face and red,
twitching eye even uglier than usual. He re-
minded Alex of an expensive Guy Fawkes on
bonfire night.

“You are invited to dinner,” Conrad said.

“No thanks, Conrad,” Alex replied. “I?m not
hungry.”

“The invitation is not one you may refuse.”
He tilted a hand to look at his watch. The
hand had been inaccurately joined to the
wrist. He had to move it a long way to see the
watch face. “You have five minutes,” he said.
“You are expected to dress formally.”

“I?m afraid I
England.”

left my dinner jacket

in

285/390

Conrad ignored him and closed the door.

Alex swung his legs off the bunk where he
had been lying. He had been in the cell ever
since his capture at the gate, vaguely won-
dering what was going to happen next. An
invitation to dinner had been the last thing
he?d expected. There had been no sign of
Juan when he got back.

Presumably the young guard had been rep-
rimanded for his failure to watch over Alex
and sent home. Or shot. Alex was beginning
to realize that the people at the Casa de Oro
meant business.

He had no idea what Sarov had in mind for
him this evening but he knew that the last
time they had met, Alex had only just man-
aged to escape with his life. He resembled
the sixteen-year-old Vladimir, Sarov?s lost
son. Sarov must still have some fantasy
about adopting him. Otherwise, he would
now be dead.

286/390
He decided that, all in all, it would be wise to
play along with this invitation to dinner. At
the very least it might allow him to find out a
little more about what was going on. Would
the meal be filmed, he wondered? And if so,
to what use would the film be put? Alex
pulled a clean shirt and a pair of black Evisu
trousers out of his case. He remembered that
the mad headmaster, Dr Grief, had used hid-
den cameras at the Point Blanc academy to
spy on the boys who were there.

But this was different. The film that he had
seen in the editing suite was being cut,
pieced together, manipulated. It was going to
be used for something. But what?

Conrad returned exactly five minutes later.
Alex was ready for him. Once again he was
escorted out of the slave house and up the
steps to the main house. Inside, he heard the
sound of classical music. He reached the
courtyard and saw a trio—two elderly violin-
ists and a plump lady with a cello—playing

287/390
what sounded like Bach, the fountain tink-
ling softly behind them. There were about a
dozen people gathered there, drinking cham-
pagne and eating canapes which were being
carried round on silver trays by white-ap-
roned waitresses. The four bodyguards were
standing together in a tight, watchful circle.
Another six men from the Russian delega-
tion were chatting to the girls from the swim-
ming pool, who glittered in sequins and
jewellery.

The president himself was talking to Sarov, a
glass in one hand and a huge cigar in the
other.

Sarov said something and he laughed out
loud, smoke billowing from his lips. Sarov
noticed Alex arrive and smiled.

“Ah, Alex! There you are! What will you have
to drink?”

It seemed that the events of the afternoon
had been forgotten. At least, they weren?t to

288/390
be mentioned again. Alex asked for a fresh
orange juice and it was brought at once.

“I?m glad you?re here, Alex,” Sarov said. “I
didn?t want to start without you.”

Alex remembered something Sarov had said
at the swimming pool. Something about a
surprise.

He was beginning to have bad feelings about
this dinner, but without knowing why.

The trio finished a piece of music and there
was a light smattering of applause. Then a
gong sounded and the guests moved into the
dining room. This was the same room where
Alex and Sarov had eaten breakfast, but it
had been transformed for the banquet. The
glasses were crystal, the plates brilliant white
porcelain, the knives and forks polished till
they gleamed. The tablecloth, also white,
looked brand new. There were thirteen
places for dinner—six on each side and one

289/390
at the head. Alex noted the number with a
further sense of unease. Thirteen for dinner.

Unlucky.

Everyone took their places at the table. Sarov
had placed himself at the head, with Alex on
one side of him, Kiriyenko on the other. The
doors opened and the waitresses came back
in, this time with bowls brimming over with
tiny black eggs which Alex recognized as
caviar. Presumably Sarov had it directly im-
ported from the Black Sea—it must have
been worth many thousands of pounds. Rus-
sians traditionally drink vodka with caviar,
and as the bowls were positioned around the
table, the guests were each given a small
tumbler filled to the brim.

Then Sarov stood up.

“My friends,” he began. “I hope you will for-
give me if I address you in English. There is
unfortunately one guest at this table who has
yet to learn our glorious language.”

290/390
There were smiles around the table and a few
heads nodded in Alex?s direction. Alex
looked down at the tablecloth, unsure how to
respond.

“This is for me a night of great significance.
What can I tell you about Boris Nikita
Kiriyenko?

He has been my closest and dearest friend
for more than fifty years! It is strange to
think that I can still remember him as a child
who teased animals, who cried when there
was a fight, and who never told the truth.”
Alex glanced at Kiriyenko. The president was
frowning. Sarov was presumably joking, but
the joke had failed to amuse his guest. “It is
even harder to believe this is the same man
who has been entrusted with the privilege,
the sacred honour, of leading our great coun-
try in these difficult times. Well, Boris has
come here for a holiday. I?m sure he needs
one after so much hard work. And that is the
toast that I wish to make tonight. To his

291/390
holiday! I hope that it will be longer and
more memorable than he ever expected.”

There was a brief silence. Alex could see that
the guests were puzzled. Perhaps they?d had
difficulty following Sarov?s English. But he
suspected it was what he had said that had
thrown them, not how he had said it. They
had come expecting a good dinner, but Sarov
seemed to be insulting the president of
Russia!

“Alexei, my old friend!” the president said.
Boris had decided that it was a joke. He
smiled and continued in his thickly accented
English. “Why do you not join us?” he asked.

“You know that I never drink spirits,” Sarov
replied. “And I hope you will agree that at
fourteen, my son is a little too young for
vodka.”

“I drank my first vodka aged twelve!” the
president muttered.

292/390

Somehow, Alex wasn?t surprised.

Kiriyenko lifted his glass. “Na zdarovie!” he
said. They were about the only words of Rus-
sian that Alex understood. Your health!

“Na zdarovie!” Everyone round the table
chorused the toast.

As one, they drank, throwing back the chilled
vodka, as is traditional, in a single gulp.

Sarov turned to Alex. “Now it begins,” he
said quietly.

One of the bodyguards was the first to react.
He had been reaching out to help himself to
caviar when suddenly his hands jerked,
dropping his fork and plate with a crash.
Every head turned towards him. A second
later, at the other end of the table, one of the
other men threw himself forward, head-first,
onto the table, his chair capsizing under-
neath him. As Alex watched, his eyes wide
with horror, every person at the table began

293/390
to react in the same way. One of them fell
backwards, dragging the tablecloth with him,
glasses and cutlery cascading into his lap.
Several of them simply slumped where they
sat. Another of the bodyguards managed to
get to his feet and was scrabbling for a gun
underneath his jacket, but then his eyes
glazed and he collapsed.

Boris Kiriyenko was the last to go. He was
standing, swaying on his feet like a wounded
bull.

His fist was clenched as if he knew he had
been betrayed and wanted to strike out at the
man who had done it. Then he sat down
heavily. His chair tilted and he was thrown
onto the floor.

Sarov muttered a few words in Russian.

“What have you done?” Alex gasped. “Are
they…?”

294/390
“They are unconscious, not dead,” Sarov
said. “They will, of course, have to be killed.
But not yet.”

“What are you planning?” Alex demanded.
“What is it you?re going to do?”

“We have a long journey,” Sarov said. “I?ll
tell you on the way.”

entire

lit

compound was

The
up.
Men—guards and macheteros—were running
everywhere. Alex was still dressed in the
clothes he had worn for dinner. Sarov had
changed into dark green military dress, this
time without his medals. One of the black
limousines was waiting. Conrad had driven
up at the wheel of an army truck. As Alex
watched, two more guards appeared at the
main entrance of the Casa de Oro and began
to walk down the wide steps. They were mov-
ing forward slowly,
carrying something
between them. The moment they appeared,
everyone around them stopped.

295/390
It was a large silver chest about the size of a
school trunk. Alex could just see that the top
was flat metal, but that it had a number of
switches and dials as well as some sort of slot
device built into the side. Sarov watched
while it was carried over and loaded into the
truck. All the other men did the same, as if
the two guards had just come out of a church
and this was an an effigy of a saint. Alex
shuddered. He knew exactly what he was
looking at and didn?t need the Geiger
counter to confirm it.

This was the nuclear bomb.

“Alex?” Sarov was holding the car door open
for him. Dazed, Alex got in. He knew that he
had reached the end. Sarov had shown his
hand and put into action a series of events
from which there could be no going back.
And yet even now, at this late stage, he had
no idea what the general intended to do.

296/390
Sarov sat next to him. A driver got in and
they moved off, Conrad following behind in
the truck.

At the very last moment, as they passed
through the barrier, Sarov glanced back, very
briefly.

Alex saw the look in his eyes and knew that
he had no intention ever to return. There
were a hundred questions he wanted to ask,
but he said nothing. This wasn?t the time.
Sarov was sitting quietly, his hands on his
knees. But even he couldn?t disguise the ten-
sion. Years of planning must have been
building up to this.

They drove down darkened roads with just
occasional flickers of light showing that the
island was actually inhabited. No other cars
came their way. After about ten minutes,
they began to pass buildings. Looking out of
the window, Alex saw men and women sit-
ting in front of their houses, drinking rum,

297/390
playing cards, smoking cigarettes or cigars
beneath the night sky. They were on the out-
skirts of Santiago and suddenly they turned
down a road that Alex recognized. He had
taken it on the way in. They were going to
the airport.

This time there was no security, no queues
for passport control. Sarov didn?t even have
to enter the main terminal building. Two air-
port guards were waiting for him at a gate
which was opened to allow him to drive
straight onto the runway. The truck followed.
Alex looked over the driver?s shoulder and
saw a plane, a Lear jet, parked on its own.
They stopped.

“Out,” Sarov said.

There was a breeze blowing across the air-
port runway, carrying with it the smell of avi-
ation fuel.

Alex stood on the tarmac, watching as the
silver chest was loaded onto the plane,

298/390
Conrad shouting instructions. He found it
hard to believe that such an ordinary-looking
thing could be capable of destruction on a
massive scale. He remembered films he had
seen. Flames and gale force winds rushing
through whole cities, ripping them apart.
Buildings crumbling. People turned to ashes
in an instant. Cars and buses flicked like toys
into oblivion. How could such a terrible
bomb with so much power be so small? Con-
rad closed the cargo door himself. He turned
to Sarov and nodded. Sarov gestured. Un-
willingly, Alex walked forward and climbed
the steps into the plane. Sarov was right be-
hind him. Conrad and the two men who had
been carrying the bomb followed. The door
of the plane was closed and sealed.

Alex found himself in a luxurious compart-
ment that was like no plane he had ever been
in. There were only a dozen seats, each one
upholstered in leather. The compartment
was long and thickly carpeted, with a well

299/390
stocked bar, a kitchen and, in front of the
cockpit, a seventy centimetre plasma televi-
sion screen. Alex didn?t ask what film they
would be showing. He chose a window
seat—but then they were all window seats.
Sarov sat across the aisle from him. Conrad
was one seat behind Sarov. The two guards
sat at the far end of the compartment. Alex
wondered why they were making the jour-
ney. To keep an eye on him?

And what journey, exactly, were they mak-
ing? Were they crossing into America or
travelling across the Atlantic?

Sarov must have been reading his mind. “I
will explain to you in a moment,” he said. “As
soon as we are in the air.”

In fact, it was about fifteen minutes before
the Lear jet took off down the runway and
lifted effortlessly off the ground. The cabin
lights dimmed for take-off but as soon as
they had reached thirty thousand feet, they

300/390
came back on. The guards got up and began
to serve hot tea which had been brewing in
an urn in the kitchen. Sarov allowed himself
a brief smile. He pressed a button in the arm
of his chair and swung round so that he now
faced Alex.

“You may be wondering why I decided not to
kill you,” he began. “This afternoon, when I
found you in the car… I came so close. Con-
rad is still annoyed with me. He believes I
am making a mistake. He does not under-
stand me. But I will tell you why you are still
alive, Alex. You are working for British intel-
ligence. You are a spy. And you were only do-
ing your job. I admire that, and this is the
reason why I have forgiven you. You are loyal
to your country even as I am loyal to mine.
My son Vladimir died for his country. I am
proud that you were prepared to do the same
for yours.”

Alex took this in. “Where are we going?” he
asked.

301/390
“We are going to Russia. To be precise, we
are going to Murmansk, which is a port on
the Kola Peninsula.”

Murmansk! Alex tried to remember if he had
heard the name before. It did seem familiar.
Had he heard it in a news bulletin, or per-
haps in a lesson at school? A port in Russia!
But why would they be going there … and
carrying a nuclear bomb?

taking a short

“You might like to know our flight path,”
Sarov continued. “We are crossing the At-
lantic by the northern route. This involves
flying over the Arctic Circle. In essence, we
are
following the
curvature of the earth. We will have to make
two stops to refuel. One in Gander, in north-
ern Canada. The other in the British Isles, in
Edinburgh.” Sarov must have seen the hope-
ful expression in Alex?s eyes. He went on.
“Yes. You will be home for an hour or two
tomorrow.

cut,

302/390
But please don?t get any ideas. You will not
be permitted to leave the plane.”

“Will it really take so long to get there?” Alex
asked.

“With the first stop and the time difference …
yes. We may also have to engage in some
diplomatic pleasantries with both the Cana-
dian and the British authorities. This is Kiri-
yenko?s private plane. We have filed our
flight plan with Euro Control and of course
they recognized our serial number. They be-
lieve the president is onboard. I would ima-
gine that the Canadian and the British gov-
ernments might be keen to offer us
hospitality.”

“Who?s flying the plane?”

“Kiriyenko?s pilot. He is, however, loyal to
me. A great many ordinary Russian people
believe in me, Alex. They have seen the fu-
ture … my future. They prefer it to the ver-
sion they have been offered by others.”

303/390
“You still haven?t told me what that future is.
Why are we flying to Murmansk?”

“I will tell you now. And then we must both
sleep. We have a long night ahead.”

Sarov crossed his legs. There was a light dir-
ectly above him and it beamed down, casting
his eyes and mouth into shadow. He seemed
at that moment both very old and very
young. There was no expression in his face at
all.

“Murmansk,” he began, “is home to Russia?s
northern fleet of submarines. Or it was. It is
now, quite simply, the world?s biggest nucle-
ar dustbin. The end of Russia as a world
power has led to the rapid collapse of its
army, air force and navy. I have already tried
to explain to you what has happened to my
country in the past thirty years. The way it
has been allowed to fall apart, with poverty,
crime and corruption sucking the people dry.

304/390
Well, that process of decay can be seen most
starkly in Murmansk.

“A fleet of nuclear submarines is moored
there. I say „moored? but I mean „aban-
doned?. One of them, the Lepse is more than
forty years old and contains six hundred and
forty-two bundles of fuel rods. These sub-
marines have been left to rot and they are
falling apart. Nobody cares.

Nobody can find the money to do anything
about them. It is a well documented fact,
Alex, that these old submarines represent the
single biggest threat to the world today.
There are one hundred of them! I am talking
about one fifth of the world?s nuclear fuel.
One hundred ticking time bombs, waiting to
go off. An accident waiting to happen. An ac-
cident I have decided to arrange.”

Alex opened his mouth to break in, but Sarov
held up a hand for silence.

305/390
“Let me explain to you what would happen if
just one of those submarines were to blow
up,” he continued. “First of all, a huge num-
ber of Russians in the Kola Peninsular and
the north would be killed. Many more people
would die in the neighbouring countries of
Norway and Finland.

“Unusually for this time of year, the wind is
blowing to the west, so the nuclear fallout
would travel over Europe to your country. It
is very possible that London would become
uninhabitable.

Over the years,
would fall ill and die slow, painful deaths.”

thousands more people

“So why do it?” Alex shouted. “Why cause
the explosion? What good will it do?”

“I am, if you like, giving the world a wake-up
call,” Sarov explained. “Tomorrow night I
will land in Murmansk and I will place the
bomb that you have seen amongst the sub-
marines.” He reached into his top pocket and

306/390
took out a small plastic card. It had a mag-
netic stripe down one side like a credit card.
“This is the key that will detonate the bomb,”
he said. “All the codes and information re-
quired are contained in the magnetic strip.
All I have to do is insert the card into the
bomb. At the time of the explosion itself, I
will be on my way south to Moscow, out of
harm?s way.

“The explosion will be felt in every country in
the world. You can imagine the shock and
the outrage that it will create. And nobody
will know that it was caused by a bomb that
was deliberately carried to Murmansk. They
will believe that it was one of the submar-
ines. The Lepse, perhaps, or one of the oth-
ers. I?ve already said—it was an accident
waiting to happen.

And when it does happen, nobody will begin
to suspect the truth.”

307/390
“Yes they will!” Alex said. “The CIA know you
bought uranium. They?ll
their
agents are dead—”

find out

“Nobody will believe the CIA. Nobody ever
believes the CIA. And anyway, by the time
they have assembled their evidence against
me, it will be too late.”

exclaimed.
“I don?t understand!” Alex
“You?ve already said you?ll kill thousands of
your own people. What?s the point?”

“You are young. You know nothing of my
people. But listen to me, Alex, and I will
explain.

When this disaster happens, the whole world
will unite in its condemnation of Russia. We
will be hated. And the Russian people will be
ashamed. If only we had been less careless,
less stupid, less poor, less corrupt. If only we
were still the super power we had once been.
And it is at this moment that everyone—in

308/390
Russia and in the world—will look to Boris
Kiriyenko for leadership.

The Russian president! And what will they
see?”

“You made a film of him…” Alex muttered.

“We will release the film that shows him
drunk beside the swimming pool. In his red
shorts and flowered shirt. Playing with three
half-naked women young enough to be his
daughters! And we have interviewed him.
We?ll release that too.”

“You?ve edited the interview!”

“Exactly.” Sarov nodded, his eyes catching
the light. “Our interviewer asked him about a
train strike in Moscow and Kiriyenko, who
was already half drunk, replied: „This is my
holiday. I?m too busy to deal with that.? We
will change the question. „What are you go-
ing to do about the accident in Murmansk??
And Kiriyenko will reply—”

309/390
“—„This is my holiday. I?m too busy to deal
with that.? ” Alex finished the sentence.

“The Russian people will see Kiriyenko for
the weak, drunken imbecile that he is. They
will very quickly blame him for the disaster
at Murmansk—and with good reason. The
northern fleet was once the pride of the
whole nation. How could it have been al-
lowed to become a rusting, leaking, lethal
nuclear dump?”

The plane droned on. Conrad was listening
intently to what Sarov was saying, his head
balancing unevenly on his neck. The two
guards at the back had gone to sleep.

“You said you would be in Moscow,” Alex
muttered.

“It will take less than twenty-four hours for
the government to be swept out of power,”
Sarov replied. “There will be riots in the
streets. Many Russians believe that life was
better—much better—in the old days. They

310/390
still believe in communism. Well, now their
anger will be heard. It will be unstoppable.
And I will be there to harness it, to use it to
take power. I have followers who are waiting
for it to happen. Before the nuclear cloud has
settled, I will have total control of the coun-
try. And that is just the beginning, Alex. I
will rebuild the Berlin Wall. There will be
new wars. I will not rest until my kind of
government, communist government, is the
single dominant power in the world.”

There was a long silence.

“You?re prepared to kill millions of people to
achieve this?” Alex asked.

Sarov shrugged. “Millions of people are dy-
ing in Russia right now. They can?t afford
food. They can?t afford medicine—”

“And what happens to me?”

“I?ve already answered that question, Alex. I
don?t believe it was a coincidence that you

311/390
turned up the way you did. I believe it was
meant to happen. I was never meant to do
this on my own.

You will be with me tomorrow and when the
bomb is primed and ready, we will
leave
together.

First Murmansk, then Moscow. Don?t you
see what I?m offering you? You are not just
going to be my son. You are going to have
power, Alex. You are going to be one of the
most powerful people in the world.”

The plane had already reached the coast of
America and turned, beginning its journey
north.

Alex sank back in his seat, his head spinning.
Absent-mindedly, he allowed his hand to slip
into his trouser pocket. He had managed to
bring one stick of the MI6 bubblegum with
him. He also had the little figurine that was
actually a stun grenade.

312/390
He closed his eyes and tried to work out what
he was going to do.

SECURITY NIGHTMARE

Hours spent in a strange twilight that was
neither night nor day. Trapped on the roof of
the world, totally still yet hurtling ever fur-
ther. Alex slept for the first part of the jour-
ney, knowing that he was tired and that he
would need his strength. He had accepted
what he had to do. Before, when they had
been on Skeleton Key, a small part of him
had been tempted to sit back and do nothing.
After all, he had never asked to be there. All
this had nothing to do with him.

But now everything had changed. He could
see the nuclear blast in the Kola Peninsular.
It was already there,
in his imagination.
Thousands of people would die instantly,
tens of thousands later as the deadly radio-
active particles spread over Europe. Britain
would be one of the countries that would

314/390
suffer. Alex had to stop it happening. He no
longer had any choice.

It was going to be much more difficult this
time. Sarov might have forgiven him for his
failed escape attempt in the car but Alex
knew he would no longer trust him. And he
couldn?t afford to make another mistake. If
he was caught trying to escape a second time,
there would be no reprieve, no mercy. In his
heart, Alex seriously doubted that he would
be able to slip past the Russian general or his
twisted companion. Sarov was completely
alert, as if he had been sitting there for ten
minutes, not ten hours. Conrad was still
watching him too. He was sitting quietly on
the other side of the plane, a cat waiting for a
mouse, his red eye blinking in the half light.

And yet…

Alex had the two gadgets Smithers had given
him. And they were going to be landing in
Britain!

315/390
Just the thought of being in his own country,
surrounded by people who spoke his lan-
guage, gave Alex new strength. He had a plan
and it would work. It had to.

He must have slept through the refuelling
stop at Gander and several hours of the flight
because the next thing he knew, it was light
outside and the two guards were clearing
away a breakfast of raw fruit and yoghurt
that had been prepared in the Lear jet?s
miniature kitchen. He looked out of the win-
dow. All he could see was cloud.

Sarov noticed that he had woken up. “Alex!
Are you hungry?”

“No, thank you.”

“Still, you must have something to drink. It?s
very easy to dehydrate on these long jour-
neys.” He spoke a few words of Russian to
one of the guards, who disappeared and
came back with a glass of grapefruit juice.
Alex hesitated before bringing it to his lips,

316/390
remembering what had happened to Kiriyen-
ko. Sarov smiled. “You don?t need to worry,”
he said. “It?s just grapefruit juice. No added
ingredients.”

Alex drank. The juice was cold and refresh-
ing after his long sleep.

“We will be landing in Edinburgh in about
thirty minutes,” Sarov told him. “We?re
already in British airspace. How does it feel
to be home?”

“If you?d like to drop me, I can get a train to
London.”

Sarov shook his head. “I?m afraid not.”

A few minutes later they began their descent.
The pilot had been in radio communication
with the airport and had confirmed that this
was a routine refuelling stop. He would not
be dropping or picking up any passengers
and so needed no
operating permit.
Everything had been cleared with the airport

authorities, making this
simple as a car pulling into a local garage.

317/390
touchdown as

And despite Sarov?s fears, the British gov-
ernment had not invited the supposed VIP
passengers for a diplomatic breakfast
in
Edinburgh!

The plane broke through the cloud and, with
his face pressed against the window, Alex
suddenly saw countryside with miniature
houses and cars dotted around it. The bril-
liant sunshine of the Caribbean had been re-
placed by the grey light and uncertain weath-
er of a British summer?s day.

He felt a sense of relief. He was back! But at
the same time, he knew Sarov would never
allow him off the plane. In a way, it would
have been less cruel if they had refuelled in
Greenland or Norway. He was being given
one last look at his own country. The next
time he saw it, it would have been poisoned
for generations to come. Alex reached into

318/390
his pocket. His hand closed around the figur-
ine of Michael Owen. The time was getting
close…

The seat-belt signs came on. A moment later,
Alex felt the pressure in his ears as they
dropped out of the sky. He saw a bridge,
somehow delicate from this height, spanning
a great stretch of water. The Forth Road
Bridge … it had to be. And there was Edin-
burgh, over in the west, its castle dominating
the skyline. The airport came rushing up. He
caught a glimpse of a bright, modern termin-
al, of waiting planes sitting on the apron sur-
rounded by vans and trolleys. There was a
bump as the wheels made contact with the
runway and then the roar of the engines in
reverse thrust. The plane slowed. They had
landed.

Guided by the control tower, the Lear jet
made its way to the end of the runway and
into an area known as the fuel farm, far away
from the main terminal. Alex gazed out of

319/390
the window with a sinking feeling as the pub-
lic buildings slid away behind him. For every
second that they travelled, he would have
further to run to raise the alarm—always as-
suming that he did even manage to get off
the plane. The Michael Owen figure was in
his hand now. What had Smithers told him?
Twist the head twice one way and once the
other to arm it. Wait ten seconds, then drop
it and run. The confined space of an aircraft
cabin seemed the perfect place to try it out.
The only question was, how was Alex going
to stop it knocking himself out too?

They came to a halt. Almost at once, a fuel
truck began to drive towards them. Sarov
had obviously prepared everything well in
advance. There was a car following the truck
and, looking out of the window, Alex saw
that steps were being led up to the Lear jet?s
door. That was interesting. It seemed that
somebody wanted to come onboard.

320/390
Sarov was watching him. “You will not speak,
Alex,” he said. “Not one single word. Before
you even think of opening your mouth, I sug-
gest you look behind you.”

Conrad had moved into the seat directly be-
hind Alex. He had a newspaper balanced on
his lap.

As Alex turned, he lifted it to reveal a large
black pistol with a silencer, pointing directly
at him.

“Nobody will hear anything,” Sarov said. “If
Conrad even thinks you are about to try
something, he will fire. The bullet will pass
through the seat and into your spine. Death
will be instant but it will appear that you
have simply fallen asleep.”

Alex knew that it wouldn?t be as easy as that.
A person being shot in the back did not look
like a person falling asleep. Sarov was taking
huge risks. But this whole business was a
huge risk. The stakes couldn?t be higher.

321/390
Alex had no doubt that if he tried to tell any-
one what was happening he would be killed
immediately.

The door of the plane opened and a ginger-
haired man in blue overalls entered, carrying
a sheaf of papers. Sarov rose to greet him.
“Do you speak English?” the man asked in a
Scottish accent.

“Yes.”

“I have some papers here for you to sign.”

Alex turned his head slightly. The man saw
him and nodded. Alex nodded back. He
could almost feel Conrad pressing the back
of his seat with the gun. He said nothing.
And then it was over.

Sarov had signed the papers and returned
the man?s pen.

“Here?s a receipt for you,” the man said,
handing Sarov a sheet. “And we?ll have you
back in the air in no time at all.”

322/390

“Thank you.” Sarov nodded.

“Are you going to come out and stretch your
legs? It?s a pleasant day here in Edinburgh.
We can offer you some tea and shortbread if
you want to come to the office.”

“No, thank you. We?re all a little tired. We?ll
stay where we are.”

“OK. If you?re absolutely sure, I?ll get rid of
the steps…”

They were going to take away the steps—and
as soon as they were gone, Sarov would seal
the door! Alex had only seconds in which to
act. He waited until the man had left the cab-
in, then stood up. His hands were in front of
him, the Michael Owen figure lying con-
cealed in his palm.

“Sit down!” Conrad hissed.

“It?s all right, Conrad,” Alex said. “I?m not
going anywhere. I?m just stretching my
legs.”

323/390
Sarov had sat down again. He was examining
the paperwork the man had given him. Alex
strolled past him. His mouth was dry and he
was glad that the sensor that had been used
at the gate of the Casa de Oro wasn?t on the
plane. If it had been turned on him now, his
heartbeat would have been deafening. This
was his last chance. Alex carefully measured
out each step. If he had been walking to-
wards his own scaffold, he couldn?t have
been more tense.

“Where are you going, Alex?” Sarov asked.

Alex turned Michael Owen?s head twice.

“I?m not going anywhere.”

“What?s that you?ve got in your hands?”

Alex hesitated. But if he tried to pretend he
had nothing, Sarov would become even more
suspicious than he already was. He held up
the figurine. “It?s my lucky mascot,” he said.

“Michael Owen.”

324/390
He took another step forward. He gave the
player?s head another turn back.

Ten … nine … eight… seven…

“Sit down, Alex,” Sarov said.

“I?ve got a headache,” Alex said. “I just want
some fresh air.”

“You are not to leave the plane.”

“I?m not going anywhere, General.”

But Alex had already reached the door and
felt the fresh Scottish breeze on his face. A
tow-truck was pulling the steps away. He
watched as a gap opened up between them
and the door.

Four… three … two…

“Alex! Return to your seat!”

Alex dropped the figurine and threw himself
forward.

325/390
Conrad Leapt up like an angry snake, the gun
in his hand.

The figurine exploded.

Alex felt the blast behind him. There was a
flash of
light and a bang that sounded
massively loud, although no windows broke
and there was no fire or smoke. His ears rang
and for a moment he couldn?t see. But he
was outside the plane. He had been outside
the plane when the stun grenade went off.
The steps were still moving away, disappear-
ing in front of him. He was going to miss
them! The asphalt surface of the fuel farm
apron was five metres below. If he fell that
distance, he would break a leg. He might
even be killed. But he had made his move
just in time. He landed flat on his stomach
on the top of the staircase with his legs
dangling in the air.

Quickly he pulled himself to his feet. The
man with the ginger hair was staring at him,

326/390
astonished. Alex ran down the still-moving
steps. As his feet came into contact with the
ground, he felt a thrill of triumph. He was
home. And it seemed that the stun grenade
had done its job.

There was no movement on the plane.
Nobody was firing at him.

“What the hell do you think you?re doing?”
the man demanded.

Alex ignored him. This wasn?t the right per-
son to be talking to—and he needed to put as
much distance as he could between himself
and the plane. Smithers had said that the
grenade would only incapacitate the enemy
for a few minutes. Sarov and Conrad would
wake up soon. And they would waste no time
in coming after him.

He ran. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw
the man snatch a radio out of his pocket and
talk into it—but that didn?t matter. There
were other men around the plane, about to

327/390
start refuelling. They must surely have heard
the explosion. Even if Alex was recaptured,
the plane wouldn?t be allowed to leave.

But he had no intention of being recaptured.
He had already noticed a row of administrat-
ive buildings on the perimeter of the airfield
and he made for them, the breath rasping in
his throat.

He reached a door and pulled at it. It was
locked! He looked through the window.
There was a hallway on the other side and a
public telephone, but for some reason the
building was closed.

For a moment he was tempted to smash the
glass—but that would take too long. Cursing
quietly, he left the door and ran the twenty
metres to the next building.

This one was open. He found himself in a
corridor with storerooms and offices on
either side.

328/390
There didn?t seem to be anyone about. Now
all he needed was a phone. He tried a door. It
led into a room full of shelves with a photo-
copier and stationery supplies. The next door
was locked.

Alex was getting increasingly desperate. He
tried another door and this time he was
lucky. It was an office with a desk and, on the
desk, a telephone. There was nobody inside.
He ran in and snatched it up.

But it was only now he realized that he had
no idea what number to ring. The mobile
that Smithers had given him had been
equipped with a hot key—a direct link to
MI6. But nobody had ever given him a direct
number. What was he to do? Dial the operat-
or and ask for military intelligence? They
would think he was mad.

He didn?t have any time to waste. Sarov
might already have recovered. Even now he
might be on his way. The office had a

329/390
window but it looked out the back, so there
was no sign of the plane or the runway. Alex
made a decision and dialled 999.

The line rang twice before it was answered.

It was a woman?s voice. “You have rung the
emergency services. Which service do you
require?”

“Police,” Alex said.

“Connecting you now…”

He heard the ring tone.

And then a hand came down onto the tele-
phone, cutting him off. Alex swung round,
breathless, expecting to see Sarov in front of
him—or worse still, Conrad with the gun.

But it wasn?t either of them. It was an air-
port security guard who had walked into the
office while Alex was making his call. He was
about fifty years old with greying hair and a
chin that had sunk into his neck. His stom-
ach bulged over his belt and his trousers

330/390
stopped about two centimetres short of his
ankles. The man had a radio attached to his
jacket. His name—George Prescott—was
written on a badge on his top pocket. He was
looming over Alex with a stern look on his
face and, with a sinking heart, Alex recog-
nized a real security nightmare: a man with
the self-important smugness of the traffic
warden, the car park attendant, any petty
official.

“What are you doing here, laddie?” Prescott
demanded.

“I need to make a telephone call,” Alex said.

“I can see that. But this isn?t a public tele-
phone. This isn?t even a public office. This is
a secure complex. You shouldn?t be in here.”

“No, you don?t understand. This is an
emergency!”

331/390
“Oh yes? And what sort of emergency do you
mean?” Prescott obviously didn?t believe
him.

“I can?t explain. Just let me make the call.”

The security guard smiled. He was enjoying
himself. He spent five days a week plodding
from one office to another, checking doors
and turning off Lights. It was good to have
someone he could boss about. “You?re not
making any calls until you tell me what
you?re doing here!” he said. “This is a private
office.” His eyes narrowed.

“Have you opened any drawers? Have you
taken anything?”

Alex?s nerves were screaming but he forced
himself to remain calm. “I haven?t taken
anything, Mr Prescott,” he said. “I just got off
a plane that landed a few minutes ago—”

“What plane?”

“A private plane.”

332/390

“Have you got a passport?”

“No.”

“That?s a very serious matter. You can?t
enter the country without a passport.”

“My passport is on the plane!”

“Then I?ll escort you back and we?ll get it.”

“No!” Alex could feel the seconds racing by.
What could he say to this man that would
persuade him to let him make the phone
call? His mind was in a whirl and suddenly,
for the first time in his life, he found himself
blurting out the truth. “Listen,” he said. “I
know this is hard to believe, but I work for
the government. The British government. If
you let me call them, they?ll prove it to you.
I?m a spy—”

“A spy?” Prescott?s face broke into a smile.
But there was no humour in it at all. “How
old are you?”

“Fourteen.”

333/390
“A fourteen-year-old spy? I think you?ve
been watching too much television, laddie.”

“It?s true!”

“I don?t think so.”

“Listen to me, please. A man has just tried to
kill me. He?s on a plane on the runway and
unless you let me make this call, a lot of
people are going to die.”

“What?”

“He?s got a nuclear bomb, for God?s sake!”

That was a mistake. Prescott bristled. “I?ll
ask you not to take the name of the Lord in
vain, if you don?t mind.” He came to a de-
cision. “I don?t know how you got here or
what you?re playing at, but you?re coming
with me to security and passport control in
the main terminal.” He reached out for Alex.
“Come along now! I?ve had enough of your
nonsense.”

334/390
“It isn?t nonsense. There?s a man called
Sarov. He?s carrying a nuclear bomb. He?s
planning to detonate it in Murmansk. I?m
the only one who can stop him. Please, Mr
Prescott. Just let me phone the police. It?ll
only take me twenty seconds and you can
stand here and watch me. Let me talk to
them and afterwards you can take me
wherever you like.”

But
the security guard wouldn?t budge.
“You?re not making any calls and you?re
coming with me now,” he said.

Alex made up his mind. He had tried plead-
ing and he had tried telling the truth. Neither
had succeeded, so he would just have to take
the security guard out. Prescott moved round
the desk, getting closer to him. Alex tensed
himself, balancing on the balls of his feet, his
fists ready. He knew that the man was only
doing his job and he didn?t want to hurt him
but there was no other way. And then the

335/390
door opened. “There you are, Alex! I was
worried about you…” It was Sarov.

Conrad was with him. Both of them looked
ill—their skin white and eyes not quite
focused.

There was no expression on either man?s
face. “Who are you?” Prescott demanded.
“I?m Alex?s father,” Sarov replied. “Isn?t
that right, Alex?”

Alex hesitated. He realized he was still in
combat position, about to strike out. Slowly,
he lowered his arms. He knew it was over
and tasted the bitterness of defeat. There was
nothing he could do. If he argued in front of
Prescott, Sarov would simply kill both of
them. If he tried to fight, the result would be
just the same. Alex had just one hope Left. If
he walked out of here with Sarov and Conrad
and the security guard was still alive, there
was just a chance that he might tell his story
to someone who would report it to MI6. It

336/390
would certainly be too late for Alex. But the
world might still be saved.

“Isn?t that right, Alex?” Sarov was waiting
for an answer.

“Yes,” Alex said. “Hello, Dad.”

“So what?s all this business about bombs
and spies?” Prescott asked.

Alex inwardly groaned. Why couldn?t the
man keep his mouth shut?

“Is that what Alex has been telling you?”
Sarov asked.

“Aye. That and a whole lot more besides.”

“Has he made a telephone call?”

“No.” Prescott puffed himself up. “The wee
rascal was helping himself to the phone
when I came in. But I soon put a stop to
that.”

337/390
Sarov nodded slowly. He was pleased.
“Well… he does have a vivid imagination,” he
explained.

“Alex has not been well lately. He has mental
problems. Sometimes he finds it hard to dis-
tinguish between fantasy and reality.”

“How did he
demanded.

get

in here?” Prescott

“He must have slipped out of the plane when
nobody was watching. He has, of course, no
permission to be on British soil.”

“Is he British?”

“No.” Sarov took hold of Alex?s arm. “And
now we must return to the plane. We still
have a long journey ahead of us.”

“Wait a minute!” The guard wasn?t going to
let them off that easily. “I?m sorry, sir, but
your son was strictly off-limits. And for that
matter, so are you. You can?t
just go

338/390
wandering around Edinburgh airport like
this! I?m going to have to report this.”

“I quite understand.” Sarov didn?t seem at
all perturbed. “I must get the boy back on the
plane.

But I will leave you with my assistant, who
will give you all the details you require. If ne-
cessary, he will accompany you to your su-
perior?s office. And I have to thank you for
preventing my son from making a telephone
call, Mr Prescott. That would have been most
embarrassing for us all.”

Without waiting for a reply, Sarov turned
and, still holding Alex?s arm, led him out of
the room.

An hour later, the Lear jet took off on the last
leg of its journey. Alex was sitting in the
same seat as before but now he was hand-
cuffed to it. Sarov hadn?t hurt him and no
longer seemed even aware that he was on the
plane.
the most

In a way,

that was

339/390
frightening thing about him. Alex had expec-
ted anger, violence, perhaps even a sudden
death at the hands of Conrad. But Sarov had
done nothing. From the moment that Alex
had been escorted back onto the plane, the
Russian hadn?t so much as looked at him.
There had, of course, been problems. The ex-
plosion on the plane and Alex?s leap out of it
had raised all sorts of questions. The pilot
had been in constant communication with
the control tower. The sound of the explo-
sion had been a faulty microwave oven, he?d
explained. As for the boy? General Alexei
Sarov, on the staff of the Russian president,
was travelling with a nephew. The boy had
high spirits. Very stupid, but everything was
under control…

If this had been an ordinary private jet, the
police would have been called. But it was re-
gistered to Boris Kiriyenko. It had diplomatic
immunity. All in all, the authorities agreed, it

340/390
would be easier to turn a blind eye and let it
go.

George Prescott?s body was discovered four
hours later. He was sitting, slumped, in a sta-
tionery cupboard. There was a look of sur-
prise on his face and a single, round bullet
wound between his eyes.

By then, the Lear was in Russian airspace.
Even as the alarm was raised and the police
were finally called, the cabin lights were
dimmed as the jet curved over the Kola Pen-
insula preparing for its final descent.

THE END OF THE WORLD

Airports are the same all over the world, but
the one at Murmansk had managed to
achieve a new level of ugliness. It had been
built in the middle of nowhere so that, from
the air, it looked like a mistake. At ground
level, it offered just one low-rise terminal
built out of glass and tired, grey cement, with
eight white letters mounted on the roof.

MYPMAHCK

Alex recognized the Russian spelling. Mur-
mansk. A city with thousands of people. He
wondered how many of them would be alive
in twelve hours? time. Now handcuffed to
one of the two guards who had flown with
them all the way from Skeleton Key, he was
led across an empty runway. It had rained
recently. The asphalt was wet and greasy,
with pools of dirty water all around. There
were no other planes in sight. In fact, the

342/390
airport didn?t seem to be in use at all. A few
lights burned, dull yellow, behind the glass.
But there were no people. The single arrivals
door was locked and chained as if the airport
had given up all hope of anyone ever actually
coming there.

They were expected. Three army trucks and a
mud-streaked saloon car were waiting. A row
of men stood to attention, dressed in khaki
uniforms with black belts and boots almost
like Wellingtons rising to their calves. Each
one of them carried a machine-gun on a
strap across his chest. Their commander,
wearing the same uniform as Sarov, stepped
forward and saluted. He and Sarov shook
hands, then embraced. They spoke for a few
minutes. Then the commander snapped an
order. Two of his men ran to the plane and
began to unload the silver chest that was
Sarov?s nuclear bomb. Alex watched as it
was taken out of the back and loaded into
one of the trucks. The soldiers were well

343/390
disciplined. Here was enough power to des-
troy a continent, but not one head turned as
it was carried past.

With the bomb in place, the soldiers swiv-
elled round and, marching in time, ap-
proached the two remaining trucks and
climbed in. His hands cuffed together now,
Alex was bundled into the front seat of one,
next to the driver. Nobody looked at him.
Nobody seemed too curious about who he
was. Sarov must have radioed ahead and
warned them that he would be there. He ex-
amined the man driving the truck. He was
tough and clean-shaven with clear blue eyes.
There was no expression on his face. A pro-
fessional soldier. Alex turned and looked out
of the window in time to see Sarov and Con-
rad getting into the car.

They set off. There really was nothing out-
side the airport, just a flat, empty landscape
where even the trees managed to be stunted
and dull. Alex shivered and tried to cross his

344/390
hands to rub warmth into his shoulders.
There was a clink from the handcuffs and the
driver glanced at him angrily.

They drove for about forty minutes down a
road pitted with holes. A few buildings, mod-
ern and characterless, crept up on them and
suddenly they were in Murmansk itself. Was
it night or day?

The sky was still light but the streetlamps
were on. There were people on the pave-
ments but they didn?t seem to be going any-
where, just drifting along like sleepwalkers.
Nobody looked at them as they followed a
single road, four lanes wide. This was a
boulevard in the centre of the city.

It was absolutely straight and seemed to go
nowhere, with blank, uninteresting buildings
on either side. Murmansk was made up of
row after row of almost identical apartment
blocks like so many match boxes. There
didn?t seem to be any cinemas, restaurants,

345/390
shops—anything that would make life worth
living.

There were no suburbs. The city just stopped
and suddenly they were driving through
empty tundra, heading for a horizon that had
nothing at all to offer. They were fourteen
hundred kilometres from the North Pole and
there was nothing here. People with no life
and a sun without a shred of warmth. Alex
thought of the journey he had made. From
Wimbledon to Cornwall.

Then London, Miami and Skeleton Key. And
finally here. Was it to be finally? What a hor-
rible place to finish his life. He really had
come to the end of the world.

There were no other cars on the road and no
street signs. Alex stopped even trying to see
where they were going. After another thirty
minutes they began to slow down,
then
turned off. There was a crunching sound un-
der the wheels as they left the asphalt surface

346/390
and continued along gravel. Was this where
the Russians kept
their submarines? He
could only see a chicken wire fence and a
dilapidated wooden kiosk trying to pass as a
sentry box.

They stopped in front of a red and white bar-
rier. A man appeared, dressed in dark blue
with a loose, flapping overcoat and, showing
underneath it, a tunic and a striped T-shirt.
He was a Russian sailor. He couldn?t have
been more than twenty years old and he
looked confused. He ran over to the car and
said something in Russian.

Conrad shot him. Alex saw the hand come
out of the window and the flash of the gun,
but it all happened so quickly that he could
hardly believe it had happened at all. The
young Russian was thrown backwards. Con-
rad fired a second time. There was another
sailor in the sentry box—Alex hadn?t even
noticed him—and he shouted out, crumpling
backwards. Nobody had spoken a word. Two

347/390
soldiers climbed out of the front truck and
went over to the barrier blocking the en-
trance. Was this really the entrance to a sub-
marine base? Alex had seen more sophistic-
ated security in a supermarket carpark. The
soldiers simply lifted the barrier. The convoy
moved on.

They followed a twisting, bumpy track down
a hill and there, at last, was the sea. The first
thing Alex saw was a fleet of ice-breakers,
moored about eight hundred metres away,
huge iron blocks sitting silently, impossibly
on the sea. It seemed against the laws of
nature that such monstrous things could
float. There were no lights onboard, no
movement at all. On the other side of the wa-
ter, another grim stretch of coastline rose up,
streaked with white; though whether this
was salt or some sort of permanent snow,
Alex couldn?t say.

The trucks bounced down and suddenly they
were in a harbour, surrounded by cranes,

348/390
gantries, warehouses and sheds. It was a
devil?s playground of twisted steel and ce-
ment, of hooks and chains, pulleys and
cables, drums, wooden pallets and huge steel
containers. Rusting ships sat in the water or
stood on dry land, suspended on a network
of stilts. Cars, lorries and tractors, some ob-
viously derelict, stood idle at the water?s
edge. There was a row of long wooden cabins
to one side, each one numbered in yellow
and grey paint. They reminded Alex of build-
ings he?d seen in old World War Two
movies, in prisoner of war camps. Could this
be where the other sailors slept? If so, they
must all be in bed. The harbour was deser-
ted. Nothing moved.

They stopped and Alex felt the truck rock as
the soldiers poured out behind him. A mo-
ment later he saw them, their machine-guns
raised, and wondered if he was meant to fol-
low them. But the driver shook his head, ges-
turing at him to stay where he was. Alex

349/390
watched the men fan out across the com-
pound, moving quickly as they made for the
cabins. There was no sign of Sarov.

He must still be in the car, which was parked
round the other side.

A long pause. Then someone gave a signal.
There was the smash of wood, a door being
forced open, then the concentrated chatter of
machine-gun fire. Somebody shouted. An
electric bell began to ring, the sound all too
small and ineffective. Three half-dressed
men appeared round the side of the cabins
and sprinted forward, trying to find shelter
among the containers. More gunfire. Alex
saw two of them go down, followed by the
third, his hands scrabbling at the air as he
was hit in the back. There was a single shot
from a window. One man was trying to fight
back. A grenade curved through the air and
onto the roof of the building. There was an
explosion and half the wall blew out, turned
into matchsticks. The next time Alex looked,

350/390
the window and presumably the man behind
it had been destroyed.

The attack had come without any warning at
all. Sarov?s men had been well armed and
prepared.

There had only been a handful of sailors at
the yard and they had all been asleep. It was
over very quickly. The ringing stopped.
Smoke curled out of the damaged building. A
figure floated past, face down in the water.
The harbour had been taken. Sarov was in
total command.

The driver got out of the truck, went quickly
round the front and opened the door for
Alex. He climbed down awkwardly, his
hands still chained together. Sarov?s men
had moved into the second phase of the op-
eration. Alex saw bodies being carried out of
sight. One of the other trucks reversed, mov-
ing closer to the water?s edge. The com-
mander from the airport called out an order

351/390
and the soldiers scattered, taking up posi-
tions that
they must have worked out
months before. It seemed unlikely that any-
body would have had time to raise the alarm,
but if anyone approached the yard from
Murmansk,
they would find it defended.
Sarov was standing to one side with Conrad
beside him. He was looking at something.
Alex followed his eyes.

And there were the submarines!

Alex gasped. Here was what this whole thing
had been about! There were just four of
them, bloated metal beasts that lay half-sub-
merged in the sea, secured by ropes as thick
as a man?s arm.

Each one was the size of an office building
turned on its side. The submarines had no
markings whatsoever and no flags. They
seemed to be coated in black oil or tar. Their
conning towers, set well back, were closed
and solid. Alex shivered.

352/390
He?d never thought that a machine could ac-
tually emanate evil, but these did. They were
as dark and as cold as the water that lapped
about them. They looked just like the bombs
that they had become. Three of the submar-
ines were in a line, moored against the side
of the harbour. The fourth was in a bay of its
own, a little way out. Alex noticed a crane at
the end of a quay, right next to the water.
Years ago it might have been painted yellow
but most of the colour had flaked off. The
control cabin was only about ten metres
above the ground with a ladder reaching up
to it. The arm of the crane slanted up, then
bent down, mimicking the neck and head of
a bird. This was a crane with no hook. In-
stead there was a metal disc like an oversized
bath plug dangling underneath the arm, con-
nected to it by a chain and a series of electric
cables.

Conrad shouted something and the driver
led Alex over to a solid handrail on the edge

353/390
of the quay. It had obviously been placed
there to stop anyone falling in and it was se-
curely bolted to the ground. The driver un-
locked one of Alex?s hands then pulled with
the chain, leading him like a dog. He walked
him over to the handrail and cuffed him to it.
Alex was left standing on his own in the
middle of everything. He jerked at the chain
but
it was useless. He wasn?t going
anywhere.

Alex could only stand and watch as two of
the soldiers lifted the bomb out of the truck
as carefully as they could. He saw the strain
in their faces as they set it on the ground
right next to the edge of the quay and only a
few metres from the crane. Sarov walked
over, Conrad limping along next to him.
Conrad looked at Alex and one corner of his
mouth twitched into a smile.

Sarov reached into his jacket pocket and took
out the plastic card he had shown Alex on
the plane. He held it for a moment, then fed

354/390
it into the slot on the side of the nuclear
bomb. At once, the silver chest came to life.
A series of red lights began to blink on a pan-
el. Alex saw a line of digits on a liquid crystal
display. Hours, minutes and seconds. They
were already counting down.

The magnetic stripe on the card had activ-
ated the bomb. Somewhere inside the chest,
electronic wheels were turning. The detona-
tion sequence had begun.

Then Sarov came over to Alex.

He stood there, examining him as if for the
first and last time. As ever, his face gave
nothing away, but Alex detected something
in the man?s eyes. Sarov would have denied
it. He would have been angered if anyone
had suggested it. But the sadness was there.
It was plain to see.

“And so we come to the end,” he said. “You
are standing in the Nuclear Submarine Re-
pair Shipyard of Murmansk. You may be

355/390
interested to know that the soldiers we met
at the airport have all served with me in the
past and are loyal to me still. The entire com-
pound is now under my control and as you
have seen, the nuclear bomb is primed. I?m
afraid I cannot stay with you any longer. I
have to return to the airport to ensure that
everything is ready for our flight to Moscow.
I will leave Conrad to place the bomb in posi-
tion on the submarine, directly over the nuc-
lear reactor that is still there inside. It is pos-
sible that the detonator in the bomb will also
trigger the reactor, doubling or trebling the
force of the explosion. This will mean very
little to you, as you will be vaporized in-
stantly—before your brain has time even to
work out what has happened. Conrad is very
disappointed. He had hoped I would allow
him to kill you himself.”

Alex said nothing.

“I am so sorry, Alex, that in the end you were
so much more stupid than I had thought,

356/390
although perhaps I should have expected it.
A Western child, brought up and educated in
Britain … a country that is itself only a shad-
ow of what it once was. Why couldn?t you
see what I was offering you? Why couldn?t
you accept your place in the new world? You
could have been my son. You chose to be my
enemy. And this is where it has brought
you.”

There was another,
long silence. Sarov
reached out and gently stroked Alex?s cheek.
He looked into the boy?s eyes one last time.
Then he turned on his heel and walked away.
Alex watched him get into his car and drive
off.

The other soldiers were a distance away, still
in their places around the site. But here at
the centre, with the crane, the submarines
and the nuclear bomb, Alex and Conrad were
on their own. It was as if they had the whole
harbour to themselves.

357/390
Conrad stepped forward and stopped very
close to Alex. “I have a job to do,” he rasped.
“But then we will have a little time together.
Strange though it is, Sarov still cares about
you. He told me to leave you alone. But I
think, this time, I must disobey the general.
You are mine! And I intend to make you
suffer…”

“Just talking to you makes me suffer,” Alex
said.

Conrad ignored him. He went over to the
crane and climbed the short ladder into the
cabin. Alex saw him start up the controls and
a moment later the metal disc swung round
so that it was over the bomb, then began to
descend. Conrad handled the crane expertly.
The disc fell quickly, stopped, then gently
came into contact with the surface of the
chest. Alex heard a loud click and a moment
later the chest suddenly swayed and left the
ground. Now he understood. The metal disc
was a powerful electromagnet. Conrad was

358/390
operating a magnetic hoist, using it to carry
the bomb across the water and deposit it on
the submarine. The whole operation would
take him about
three minutes. Then he
would come for Alex.

Alex had run out of time. He had to act now.

The stick of bubblegum that Smithers had
given him was in his right pocket. Only his
left hand was free and it took him a few pre-
cious seconds to get it out, unwrap it and
shove it into his mouth. He wondered what
Conrad would think if he had seen him. Cer-
tainly Sarov wouldn?t have been amused. A
Western boy about to face death and all he
could think about was gum!

Alex chewed. Smithers had managed to get
one part of the formula right. The gum did
indeed taste of strawberries. He wondered
how long he should leave it in his mouth. His
saliva was meant to activate it, but how
much saliva did it need? He chewed until the

359/390
gum felt soft and manageable and the straw-
berry taste had faded away. Then he spat it
into his hand and quickly pressed it into the
handcuff, forcing it into the lock.

The silver chest had travelled all the way
across the water. Alex saw it swinging gently
over the submarine. Inside the control cabin,
Conrad leaned forward. Slowly he lowered
the chest until it landed on the metal surface.
The wires and chains attached to the hoist
sagged, then straightened again. The hoist
began to move back towards the quay. But it
had left the bomb behind.

Something was definitely happening inside
the handcuffs. Alex heard a very faint hiss-
ing. The pink gum was expanding. It was
oozing back out of the lock and there was
much more gum coming out than he had put
in. There was a sudden crack. The metal had
shattered. Alex felt a painful sting as a piece
of broken metal cut into his wrist. But then
the handcuffs fell open. He was free!

360/390
Conrad had seen what had happened. He
was already climbing out of the crane. He
hadn?t turned off the controls and the mag-
net was still coming back on its own, just a
few metres above the water. The bomb was
out of reach on the other side. Even as Alex
looked around for a weapon, Conrad reached
the bottom of the ladder and rushed towards
him. Suddenly they were face to face.

Conrad smiled. The smile tugged at the one
side of his face that could move. The other
side, with the bald scalp above it, remained
still. Alex could see at once that, despite all
his terrible injuries, Conrad was utterly con-
fident. A moment later, he knew why. Fired
by hatred, Conrad moved with surprising
speed. He was standing in combat stance one
moment, a blur the next. Alex felt a foot kick
him in the chest. The world spun and he was
thrown to the ground, winded and bruised.

Meanwhile, Conrad had landed lightly on his
feet. He wasn?t even out of breath.

361/390
Painfully, Alex picked himself up. Conrad
walked towards him and lashed out a second
time. His foot missed by a centimetre as Alex
dived back to the ground, rolling over and
over to the water?s edge. A hand reached out
and grabbed hold of his shirt. Alex saw the
dreadful stitch-marks where the hand had
been sewn back onto the wrist. He was
dragged to his feet. Conrad slapped him with
tremendous force. Alex tasted blood. The
hand released him. He stood, swaying, trying
to find some sort of defence.

But he had none. For all his strength and
skill, Conrad had beaten him. And now he
was coming in for the kill. Alex saw it in his
face…

And then, out of nowhere, came a sudden
clanging. The alarm bell had started up
again. There was a burst of gunfire and,
seconds later, an explosion. Someone had
thrown another grenade.

362/390
Conrad stopped dead in his tracks, his head
twisting round. There was more gunfire. Im-
possible though it was, it seemed that the
harbour was under attack.

With new strength, Alex ran forward. He had
seen a metal rod lying on the ground
amongst all the other debris. His hands
closed around it and he swept it up, grateful
to have something that felt like a weapon in
his hands. Conrad turned to face him. The
shooting had intensified. Now it seemed to
be coming from two directions as Sarov?s
men defended themselves against an enemy
that had come from nowhere. There was a
screech of tyres, and in the far distance Alex
saw a jeep come smashing through one of the
chicken wire fences. It skidded to a halt and
three men jumped out and took cover. They
were all dressed in blue. What was going on
here? The Russian navy against the Russian
army? And who, exactly, had raised the
alarm?

363/390
But even if Sarov?s plans had been revealed,
even if a rescue operation had somehow been
put in place, Alex was still in grave danger.
Conrad was on the balls of his feet, looking
to find a way past the metal rod. And what
about the nuclear bomb? Alex didn?t know if
Sarov had primed it to go off in five hours or
five minutes. Knowing how mad he was, it
could have been either.

Conrad leapt forward. Alex lunged with the
metal pole and felt it ram into the man?s
shoulder.

But his smile of satisfaction vanished as Con-
rad grabbed hold of the rod with both hands.
He had allowed Alex to hit him simply be-
cause that would bring the rod within his
reach. Alex pulled back, but Conrad was
much too strong for him. He felt the metal
being torn out of his hands, cutting into his
palms. Alex let go of the rod, then cried out
as Conrad swung it viciously like a scythe.
The metal slammed into the side of Alex?s

364/390
leg and he was down again, on his back, un-
able to move.

More gunfire. Although his vision was
dimmed, Alex saw two more grenades arc
through the air.

They landed next to one of the ships and ex-
ploded, a huge fireball of flame. Two of
Sarov?s men were lifted into the air. Two or
even three machine-guns began to chatter
simultaneously. There were screams. More
flames.

Conrad stood over him.

He seemed to have forgotten what was hap-
pening in the shipyard. Or perhaps he didn?t
care. He pulled up one sleeve, then the other.
Finally he dropped down so that he was sit-
ting on Alex?s chest, one knee on either side.
His hands closed around Alex?s throat.

Gently, enjoying what he was doing, he
began to squeeze.

365/390
Alex felt himself being slowly strangled. He
couldn?t breathe. There were already black
spots in front of his eyes. But he had seen
something that Conrad hadn?t. It was slowly
making its way back towards them, crossing
the water. The magnetic disc.

Conrad had left the controls on in the cabin
in his haste to get over to Alex. Was it
possible…?

Alex remembered what Sarov had told him
about his assistant. He had metal pins all
over his body. There were metal wires in his
jaw and a metal plate in his head…

The magnet was almost over them, blotting
out the sky. Alex couldn?t breathe. Conrad?s
hands were tight around his throat. He had
only seconds left.

With the last of his strength, he suddenly
lashed out with both his fists, at the same
time jerking his body up. Conrad was taken
by surprise. He started back, his hands

366/390
loosening. The magnet was right above him.
Alex saw the shock in his face as all the metal
plates, pins and wires in his body entered the
magnetic field. Conrad yelled and disap-
peared, plucked into the air by invisible
hands. His back smashed into the disc with a
terrible snapping sound. At once he went
still, attached to the disc by his shoulders, his
arms and legs hanging down.

The crane continued moving, carrying the
limp body in a gentle curve over the quay.

Alex gasped for breath. The world swam
back into focus. “What an attractive man,” he
muttered.

Slowly, he pulled himself to his feet, then
staggered over to the handrail where he had
been chained. He propped himself against it,
no longer able to stand without its support.
There was a burst of gunfire,
longer and
more powerful than any that had gone be-
fore. A helicopter had appeared, flying in low

367/390
over the sea. He saw an airman sitting in the
open doorway, his legs dangling, a huge gun
cradled in his lap. One of Sarov?s trucks was
blown off its wheels, twisted over twice and
exploded in flames.

The bomb…

Alex could work out what was happening
here later. Nobody would be safe until the
bomb was defused. His throat was still burn-
ing. It took all his strength to draw breath.
But now he ran forward and climbed into the
crane. He had operated a crane before. He
knew it couldn?t be too difficult. He reached
out and took the controls. At the same mo-
ment, one of Sarov?s men fired at him. The
bullet clanged against the metal casing of the
cabin. Alex ducked instinctively and pulled a
lever.

The magnetic disc stopped and swung in the
air with Conrad stuck beneath it
like a
broken doll.

368/390
Alex pushed forward and it began to drop
down into the sea. No! That wasn?t what he
wanted.

He pulled the lever back and it stopped ab-
ruptly. How did you turn off the magnet?
Alex looked around him and saw a switch.
He pressed it. A light came on over his head.
Wrong switch! There was a button set in the
control stick he was holding and he tried
that. At once, Conrad fell free.

He plunged into the grey, freezing water and
sank immediately. With all the metal inside
him, Alex thought, it was hardly surprising.

He pulled the control stick towards him and
the magnet rose again. A soldier ran across
the quay towards him. There was a burst of
fire from the helicopter and the man fell
down and lay still.

Now … concentrate! Alex tried a second lever
and this time the magnet began its return
journey over to the submarine. It seemed to

369/390
take for ever. Alex was only partly aware of
the battle still raging all around him. It
seemed that the Russian authorities had ar-
rived in force. Sarov?s men were heavily out-
numbered but were still fighting back. They
knew they had nothing to lose.

The magnet reached the submarine. Alex
dropped it towards the silver chest, remem-
bering how delicately it had been done by
Conrad. He was less skilled—and winced as
the heavy disc smashed into the top. Damn!
He would set the thing off himself if he
wasn?t careful. He pressed the button in the
control stick a second time and actually felt
the magnet come alive and knew that the
nuclear bomb was in its grip. He pulled back,
lifting the magnetic hoist. The silver chest
came clear of the submarine.

Now, a centimetre at a time, he swung the
arm of the crane over the water, bringing the
nuclear bomb back towards the harbour. A
second bullet slammed into the crane and

370/390
the window shattered right next to his head.
Alex cried out. Glass fragments showered
over him. He thought he was going to be
blinded. But when he next looked up, the
nuclear bomb was over the quay and he
knew that he was nearly finished.

He lowered it. At the very moment it touched
the ground, there was another explosion,
louder and closer than any that had gone be-
fore. But it wasn?t nuclear. One of the ware-
houses had shattered. Another was on fire. A
second helicopter had arrived and it was
strafing the ground, whipping dust and
debris into the air. It was hard to be sure, but
Alex thought that Sarov?s men were losing
ground. There seemed to be less return fire.
Well, in a few more seconds, it wouldn?t
matter.

All he had to do was retrieve the plastic card.

He pulled the magnet clear, jumped from the
crane, then ran over to the chest. He could

371/390
see the card, half protruding from the slot
where Sarov had inserted it. The lights were
still blinking, the numbers spinning. There
was less gunfire around him now. Looking
over his shoulder, he saw more men in blue
edging slowly into the compound, coming in
from all sides. He reached down and pulled
out the card. The lights on the nuclear bomb
went out. The numbers disappeared. He had
done it!

“Put it back.”

The words were softly spoken but each one
dripped menace. Alex looked up and saw
Sarov in front of him. Somehow he must
have learned that the compound was under
attack and had made his way back. How
much time had passed since the two of them
had last faced each other? Thirty minutes?
An hour? However long it had been, Sarov
had changed. He was smaller, shrunken.

372/390
The light in his eyes had gone out and what
little colour there had been in his skin
seemed to have become muddied. He had
been wounded fighting his way back into the
harbour. There was a rip in his jacket and a
slowly spreading red stain. His left hand
hung useless.

But his right hand was holding a gun.

“It?s over, General,” Alex said. “Conrad is
dead. The Russian army is here. Someone
must have tipped them off.”

Sarov shook his head. “I can still detonate
the bomb. There is an override. You and I
will die.

But the end result will be the same.”

“A better world?”

“That?s all I ever wanted, Alex. All of this…! I
was only ever doing what I believed in.”

Alex felt an enormous tiredness creeping up
on him. He weighed the card in his hand. It

373/390
was strange really. From one Skeleton Key to
another. It all came down to this.

Sarov raised the gun. The blood was spread-
ing more rapidly now. He swayed on his feet.
“Give me the card or I will shoot you,” he
said.

Alex lifted the card then suddenly flicked it.
It spun twice in the air, then disappeared in-
to the water. “Go ahead then, if that?s what
you want,” he said. “Shoot me!”

Sarov?s eyes flickered over to the lost card,
then back to Alex. “Why…?” he whispered.

“I?d rather be dead than have a father like
you,” Alex said.

There were voices shouting. Footsteps com-
ing nearer.

“Goodbye, Alex,” Sarov said.

He raised the gun and fired a single shot.

AFTER ALEX

We?ve lost Alex Rider,“ Mrs Jones said. ”I?m
sorry, Alan. I know it?s not what you wanted
to hear. But that?s the end of it.”

The head of MI6 Special Operations and his
number two were having lunch together in a
restaurant near Liverpool Street Station.
They ate there frequently, although not often
together.

The restaurant was in a basement with low,
vaulted ceilings, soft lighting and bare brick
walls.

Blunt liked the starched white tablecloths
and the old-fashioned service. Also, the food
was poor so few people came there. That was
useful when he wanted to have a conversa-
tion such as this.

“Alex did very well,” he muttered.

375/390
“Oh yes. I had an email from Joe Byrne in
Virginia. Of course, he was upset about the
loss of his own two agents in the underwater
cave, but he was full of praise for Alex. He
definitely owes us a favour… which will at
least be useful in the future.” She took a
bread roll and broke it in half.

“It wouldn?t surprise me if the CIA didn?t
start training their own teenage spy now.
The Americans are always copying our
ideas.”

“When we?re not copying theirs,” Blunt
remarked.

“That?s true.”

They paused as the waiter came over with
the first course. Grilled sardines for Mrs
Jones, soup for Blunt. Neither dish looked
particularly appetizing but that didn?t mat-
ter. Neither of them had much of an appetite.

376/390
“I?ve looked through the files and I think I
have the general picture,” Blunt said. “But
perhaps you can fill me in on some of the de-
tails. In particular, I?d like to know how the
Russian authorities found out about Sarov in
time.”

“That was because of what happened at Ed-
inburgh Airport,” Mrs Jones explained. She
looked down at her plate. There were four
sardines lying side by side, complete with
heads and tails. If it was possible for a fish to
look unhappy, these had managed it. She
squeezed lemon over them.

The juice formed tears beneath the unblink-
ing eyes.

“Alex ran into a security guard called George
Prescott,” she went on. “He?d managed to
escape from Sarov?s plane using a gadget
Smithers had given him.”

“I don?t recall authorizing Smithers—” Blunt
began.

377/390
“Alex wanted to use a telephone,” Mrs Jones
cut in. “Obviously, he was going to warn us
about Murmansk, what Sarov was planning.
This man, Prescott, stopped him.”

“Unfortunate.”

“Yes. It must have been very frustrating. Alex
actually told him that he was a spy and that
he was working for us, but then Sarov caught
up with him. Prescott was killed—and that
was the end of it. Or it would have been …
but we were extremely fortunate. Prescott
had a radio transmitter clipped to his jacket.
It was turned on throughout his conversation
with Alex and his office heard every word
that was said. Of course, they didn?t believe
Alex either, but when Prescott was found
with a bullet in his head they put two and
two together and got on to us as fast as they
could. I was the one who alerted the author-
ities at Murmansk and I must say that the
Russians acted very promptly. They pulled a

378/390
force together, plus two helicopter

naval
gunships, and stormed the yard.”

“What happened to the bomb?”

“They have it. According to their people, it
would have been big enough to blow a size-
able hole in the Kola Peninsular. The fallout
would have contaminated Norway, Finland
and, for that matter, most of Great Britain.
And I really do think the backlash would
have been enough to force Kiriyenko out of
power. Nobody
likes him very much
anyway.”

“Where is Kiriyenko?” Blunt?s soup was al-
most cold. He had forgotten what was meant
to be in it.

“The Cuban authorities found him locked up
on Skeleton Key. Shouting his head off and
blaming everyone except himself.” Mrs Jones
shook her head. “He?s back in Moscow now.

379/390
Sarov gave him a bad scare, but then he gave
us all a bad scare. If it hadn?t been for Alex,
who knows what might have happened.”

“What do the Cubans have to say about all
this?”

“They?ve disowned Sarov. Nothing to do
with them. They had no idea what he was
planning.

What?s so terrifying is that he nearly got
away with it!”

“If it hadn?t been for Alex Rider…”

The two of them finished their first course in
silence.

now?” Blunt

asked

“Where
eventually.

is Alex

“He?s home.”

“How is he?”

Mrs Jones sighed. “It would seem that Sarov
shot himself,” she said. “Alex was standing

380/390
right in front of him. The trouble with you,
Alan, is that you?ve never had children and
you refuse to accept the fact that, at the end
of the day, Alex is only a child. He?s already
been through far more than any fourteen
year old could possibly be expected to … and
this last mission! I would say it was his
toughest yet. And at the very end he actually
saw what Sarov did!”

“I suppose Sarov didn?t want to be taken
alive,” Blunt muttered.

“I wish it was as simple as that. It seems that
Sarov had some sort of… attachment to Alex.
He saw him as the son he had lost. Alex re-
jected him and it pushed him over the edge.
That?s why he did it. He couldn?t live with
himself any more.”

Blunt signalled and a waiter came over and
poured the wine. It was unusual for the two
spy-masters to drink at lunchtime but Blunt
had selected a half bottle of Chablis, which

381/390
had been sitting in an ice bucket beside their
table. Another waiter
served the main
courses. The food sat on the table untouched.

“What happened with that business with the
triads?” Blunt asked.

“Oh—I?ve sorted all that out. We had a
couple of their people in jail and I arranged
for them to be released. Flown back to Hong
Kong. It was enough. They?ll
leave Alex
alone.”

“So why do you say we?ve lost him?”

“The truth is, we shouldn?t have used him in
the first place.”

“We didn?t use him. It was the CIA.”

“You know that doesn?t make any differ-
ence.” Mrs Jones tasted the wine. “The point
is, I was the one who debriefed him and all I
can say is … he?s not the same. I know, I?ve
said this all before. But I was seriously

382/390
worried about him, Alan. He was so silent
and withdrawn. He?d been badly hurt.”

“Any broken bones?”

“For heaven?s sake! Children can be hurt in
other ways! I?m sorry, but I do feel very
strongly about this. We can?t use him again.
It isn?t fair.”

“Life isn?t fair.” Blunt picked up his own
glass. “I think you?re forgetting that Alex has
just saved the world. That boy is fast becom-
ing one of our most effective operatives.
He?s the best secret weapon we have. We
can?t afford to be sentimental about him.
We?ll let him rest. I dare say he needs to
catch up at school, and then there?s the sum-
mer holidays. But you know as well as I do, if
the need arises, there?s nothing to discuss.
We?ll use him again. And again…”

Mrs Jones put down her knife and fork. “I?m
suddenly not very hungry,” she said.

383/390
Blunt glanced at her. “I hope you?re not get-
ting a conscience,” he said. “If you?re really
worried about Alex, bring him in and we?ll
have a little heart to heart.”

Mrs Jones looked her boss straight in the
eye. “He may have trouble finding yours,”
she said.

The next day was a Saturday. Alex got up
late, showered, dressed and went down to a
breakfast that his housekeeper, Jack Star-
bright, had prepared for him. She had
cooked all his favourite things but he ate
little of it, sitting at the table in silence. Jack
was desperately worried about him. The day
before she had tried to get him to see a doc-
tor and for the first time in his life he had
snapped at her. Now she wasn?t sure what to
do. If things didn?t get better she would talk
to that woman—Mrs Jones. Jack wasn?t sup-
posed to know what was going on, but she
had a good idea. She would make them do
something. Things couldn?t go on like this.

384/390

“What you going to do today?” she asked.

Alex shrugged. There was a bandage round
his hand where the metal pole had cut him
and a number of grazes on his face. Worst of
all though were the bruises around his neck.
Conrad had certainly left his mark.

“D?you want to see a film?”

“No. I thought I?d go for a walk.”

“I?ll come with you, if you like.”

“No. Thanks, Jack, but I?m OK on my own.”

Ten minutes later, Alex left the house. The
weather forecast had said it would be a
bright day but in fact it was close and cloudy.
He started walking towards the King?s Road,
wanting to lose himself in the crowds. He
had no real idea where he was going. He just
needed to think.

Sarov was dead. Alex had turned away as the
man had raised the gun towards his own
heart, not bearing to see any more. Minutes

385/390
later it had all been over. The Repair Yard
had been secured, the bomb removed. Alex
himself had been whisked away by heli-
copter, first to a hospital in Moscow and then
back to London. Someone had told him that
Kiriyenko wanted to see him.

There was talk of a medal. Alex had declined.
He just wanted to go home.

And that?s where he was. Everything had
worked out all right. He was a hero!

So why did he feel like this? And how exactly
was it that he felt? Depressed? Exhausted?
He was both of those things—but worse still,
he felt empty. It was almost as if he had died
in the Submarine Repair Shipyard of Mur-
mansk and had somehow returned to Lon-
don as a ghost. Life was all around him but
he wasn?t a part of it. Even lying in his own
bed, in his own house, he felt he no longer
belonged.

386/390
So much had happened to him but he wasn?t
allowed to talk about it with anyone. He
couldn?t even tell Jack. She would be horri-
fied and upset—and there was nothing she
could do anyway.

He had missed more weeks of school and
knew that it wasn?t just the work he would
have to catch up with. Friendships move on
too. People already thought he was weird. It
wouldn?t be long before nobody was talking
to him at all.

He would never have a father. He knew this
now. He would never have an ordinary life.

Somehow, he had got himself trapped. A
ghost. That was what he had become.

Alex hadn?t heard the car stop behind him.

He hadn?t heard the door open and close.
But there were suddenly footsteps running
up behind him and before he could move, a
hand had been thrown around his chest.

387/390

“Alex!”

He spun round. “Sabina!”

Sabina Pleasure was standing in front of
him, panting after the short run, wearing a
Robbie Williams T-shirt and jeans, a brightly
coloured straw bag over her shoulder. Her
face was lit up with pleasure. “Thank good-
ness I found you. I?ve been after you for
weeks. You never gave me your phone num-
ber but it?s lucky I knew your address. Mum
and Dad drove me over…” She gestured at
her parents, sitting in the car. They both
raised a hand, waving at Alex through the
windscreen. “I was going to look in just in
case you were at home. And here you are!”
She looked at his neck, examining his
bruises. “You look terrible! Have you been
involved in a car smash?”

“Not exactly.”

“Anyway, Alex,” she interrupted. “I?m really
pissed off with you. I saved your life in

388/390
Cornwall, in case you don?t remember—al-
though I have to say that giving you the kiss
of life on the beach was the high point of the
holiday—and the next thing I knew, you?d
simply vanished. I didn?t even get so much
as a thank-you card.”

“Well, I was, sort of … busy.”

“Being James Bond, I suppose?”

“Well…” Alex didn?t know what to say.

Sabina took his arm. “You can tell me all
about it later. Mum and Dad have invited
you to lunch and we want to talk about the
South of France.”

“What about it?”

“That?s where we?re going this summer.
And you?re coming too. We?ve got some
friends who?ve lent us a house and a pool
and it?s going to be great.” She looked
closely at his face.

“Don?t tell me you had other plans?”

389/390
Alex smiled. “No, Sabina, I haven?t got any
plans.”

“That?s settled then. Now, what do you want
for lunch? I fancy an Italian—but he?s been
ignoring me so you?ll have to do!” She
laughed.

Alex and Sabina walked down the street to-
gether. Alex glanced up. The clouds had par-
ted and the sun was out.

It looked as if it was going to be a bright day
after all.

@Created by PDF to ePub

