Springer Texts in Business and Economics

Michael Kleinaltenkamp 
Wul(cid:31)  Plinke 
Ingmar Geiger   Editors

Business 
Relationship 
Management 
and Marketing

Mastering Business Markets

Springer Texts in Business and Economics

More information about this series at
http://www.springer.com/series/10099

ThiS is a FM Blank Page

Michael Kleinaltenkamp (cid:129) Wulff Plinke (cid:129)
Ingmar Geiger
Editors

Business Relationship
Management and
Marketing
Mastering Business Markets

Editors
Michael Kleinaltenkamp
Ingmar Geiger
Freie Universita¨t Berlin
Berlin
Germany

Wulff Plinke
European School of Management and Technology
Berlin
Germany

Translation from German language edition:
Geschäftsbeziehungsmanagement
by Michael Kleinaltenkamp, Wulff Plinke, Ingmar Geiger
Copyright # Springer Gabler 2011
Springer Gabler is a part of Springer Science+Business Media
All Rights Reserved

ISSN 2192-4333
ISBN 978-3-662-43855-8
DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5
Springer Heidelberg New York Dordrecht London

ISSN 2192-4341 (electronic)
ISBN 978-3-662-43856-5 (eBook)

Library of Congress Control Number: 2014951102

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved by the Publisher, whether the whole or part
of the material is concerned, speciﬁcally the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustrations,
recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microﬁlms or in any other physical way, and transmission or
information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by similar or dissimilar
methodology now known or hereafter developed. Exempted from this legal reservation are brief excerpts
in connection with reviews or scholarly analysis or material supplied speciﬁcally for the purpose of being
entered and executed on a computer system, for exclusive use by the purchaser of the work. Duplication
of this publication or parts thereof is permitted only under the provisions of the Copyright Law of the
Publisher’s location, in its current version, and permission for use must always be obtained from
Springer. Permissions for use may be obtained through RightsLink at the Copyright Clearance Center.
Violations are liable to prosecution under the respective Copyright Law.
The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this
publication does not imply, even in the absence of a speciﬁc statement, that such names are exempt
from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use.
While the advice and information in this book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of
publication, neither the authors nor the editors nor the publisher can accept any legal responsibility for
any errors or omissions that may be made. The publisher makes no warranty, express or implied, with
respect to the material contained herein.

Printed on acid-free paper

Springer is part of Springer Science+Business Media (www.springer.com)

Preface

Economic value creation in business-to-business (B-to-B) markets by far surpasses
value creation in the business-to-consumer (B-to-C) interface in many developed
and emerging economies. In Germany as the most important European economy,
the ratio is about three to one. Interestingly, this fact is barely reﬂected in how
mainstream marketing scholars and professionals have treated the business-to-
business realm; neglect may be the appropriate term. This is all the more astonish-
ing since the paradigm shift from transactional to relational (B-to-C) marketing in
the 1980s was nothing new to many B-to-B marketers.

For many organizations

selling their products and services

to other
organizations, their customer relationships are one of their dearest assets. In our
four books series “Mastering Business Markets”, the present volume touches upon
all relevant questions B-to-B companies face with regard to the management of
customer relationships and all marketing-related aspects within them.

We have divided the book into three parts: basic principles of business relation-
ship management (Part I), analysis, goals, and strategies (Part II), and the imple-
mentation of business relationship management (Part III). Part I gives a thorough
theoretical introduction based on both new institutional economics and behavioral
B-to-B marketing theories. Part II is concerned with organization (re-)buying
behavior, customer value and customer selection, and strategies within business
relationship management. Finally, Part III provides tools and instruments to put
business relationship management and marketing into practice: a chapter on the use
of the classical marketing instruments within business relationships is followed by a
reﬂection on how a B-to-B organization best organizes itself and its IT infrastruc-
ture to meet the challenges of business relationship management and marketing.

Since this book is based on the German language book “Gescha¨ftsbeziehungs-
management” but will be used in a newly created international Executive Education
program, the China-Europe Executive Master of Business Marketing, we also
deemed it worthwhile focusing on a special type of business relationships, those
between organizations in Europe and China. Thus, Chap. 6 touches upon special
questions that these intercultural relations bring with them.

As with every book, we have to say thanks to a number of people whose
work was invaluable in ﬁnalizing this work. We thank all authors who contributed
to this volume. Our sincere gratitude goes to our research associates Silvia

v

vi

Preface

Stroe and Ilias Danatzis who managed the whole translation and editing process.
The original translation was provided by A.C.T. Fachu¨bersetzungen GmbH. At
Springer, Dr. Prashanth Mahagaonkar served as our publishing editor. Finally, our
research assistant Corinna Ebert rendered outstanding service to all layout works.
Of course any remaining inconsistencies or mistakes are the lone responsibility of
the editors.

Berlin, Germany
March 2014

Michael Kleinaltenkamp
Wulff Plinke
Ingmar Geiger

Contents

Part I Basic Principles of Business Relationship Management

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3

Michael Kleinaltenkamp, Wulff Plinke, and Albrecht So¨llner

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships:

Explanation and Conﬁguration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Michael Kleinaltenkamp, Wulff Plinke, and Albrecht So¨llner

27

Part II Analysis, Goals and Strategies of Business Relationship

Management

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

57

Frank Jacob

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

85

Michael Kleinaltenkamp

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109

Ingmar Geiger

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in

a European-Chinese Context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153
Alexander Tirpitz and Miaomiao Zhu

Part III

Implementation of Business Relationship Management

7

8

Instruments of Business Relationship Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
Ingmar Geiger and Michael Kleinaltenkamp

Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management . . . . 245
Ingmar Geiger and Michael Kleinaltenkamp

vii

viii

Contents

9 Customer Relationship Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289

Martin Gersch

Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Basic Principles of Business Relationship
Management

Part I

Phenomenon and Challenge
to Management

1

Michael Kleinaltenkamp, Wulff Plinke, and Albrecht So¨ llner

1.1

Business Relationships as the Foundation of Business
Relationship Management

1.1.1 The Business Relationship as a Competitive Marketing Task

Companies conduct business to achieve their objectives. They develop products and
services, create markets, manufacture goods, choose business partners, submit bids
and sell their products—all while dealing with the constant threat that other
companies acting similarly (or even completely differently) may be more success-
ful in attracting and enticing away their business partners. Of course, this game,
which is known as competition, also offers opportunities—chances to close deals
with new business partners who previously worked with other companies. When a
company repeatedly does business with another company over an extended period,
we generally refer to this as a “business relationship”.

This book deals with marketing within business relationships, primarily from
the perspective of suppliers who then re-sell their products and services to other
companies or government organizations (business-to-business marketing in sales
markets).

M. Kleinaltenkamp (*)
School of Business & Economics, Freie Universita¨t Berlin, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: michael.kleinaltenkamp@fu-berlin.de

W. Plinke
European School of Management & Technology, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: wulff.plinke@esmt.org

A. So¨llner
Faculty of Business Administration & Economics, Euorpa-Universita¨t Viadrina Frankfurt (Oder),
Frankfurt (Oder), Germany
e-mail: soellner@europa-uni.de

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5_1

3

4

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

Marketing is intended to promote customer beneﬁts, meaning to present the
customer with an offer that he considers superior to those from other, relevant
competitors. If there are no customer beneﬁts, the customer will choose to do
business with a competitor, the long-term result being a supplier’s elimination
from the competition. Thus, marketing can also be considered the behavior scheme
of a supplier, intended to arm the company for survival amongst the competition. In
this sense, marketing means taking action to ensure survival in the competitive
environment, so to speak individual competitive policy. This includes all of the
processes related to planning, coordination and controlling intended to help the
supplier reach his competitive goals.

The premise on which the marketing concept is based is that a company that
ﬁnds itself in a competition amongst suppliers can only survive if its customers
make purchase decisions that provide the company with the required resources in
the form of revenue. So marketing as a behavior scheme is geared towards offering
the customer services that in turn induce the customer to grant the required services
to the company (Pfeffer and Salancik 1978; Utzig 1996).

Marketing as a way to secure the resource “customer” can have many different
shapes, depending on the structure of the competitive arena. The competitive
arena is a certain speciﬁc manifestation of competition. This type of manifestation
arises from the structure, sequence and result of competition. The competitive arena
is a virtual arena as the supplier experiences it. It is not simply fateful but—in the
case of an ongoing transaction—the result of decisions made by the supplier,
competitors and even third parties. In the case of new business, the supplier has
already decided to enter a certain ﬁeld of competition with a certain offering, thus
changing the balance between the existing suppliers and customers.

When deﬁning the relevant arena, a supplier must be careful not to specify it too
broadly or narrowly. It is certainly possible that a supplier battles competitors who
are objectively not truly competitors or that the company does not have an overview
of competitors who deﬁne “their” arena differently and may potentially be more
successful as a result (Abell 1980; Backhaus and Schneider 2009). A supplier must
establish various parameters to deﬁne the arena. These include the target customers,
their quantity and the solutions they expect; the number of relevant competitors and
their behavior scheme; the role of potential third parties; the rules of competition
and the degree of success to which the suppliers aspire.

In the business-to-business ﬁeld it is the norm that a supplier does not have only
one customer for the products and services that he offers—just as a purchaser
typically contracts with more than one supplier for the products and services that
he purchases. A speciﬁc relationship between a supplier and a purchaser (the dyad)
generally constitutes only a segment of all business relationship that the two parties
live in (Refer to Fig. 1.1).

Thus, a speciﬁc business relationship is a potential deﬁnition of the competitive
arena. The individual customer and the competitors that compete for the customer
form the speciﬁc part of the market situation that is selected as the focus of
competition of a supplier. Marketing in business relationships (synonymous
with business relationship management,
relationship

relationship marketing,

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

5

Customer

Customer

Supplier

Supplier

Customer

Supplier

Customer

Supplier

Customer

Customer

Supplier

Supplier

Fig. 1.1 Dyadic business relationship as part of supplier/purchaser relationships

management) is a behavior scheme that relies explicitly on the existence and the
signiﬁcance of lasting exchange relationships between one supplying company and
one customer, and that focuses its marketing measures on the repurchase behavior
of the customer. Horizontal business relationships (e.g. cooperations between
competitors, alliances, cartels) are not discussed in this book. The subject is rather
the processes of ongoing market exchange between a certain supplying and a
certain purchasing company or: It is about managing repurchasing and reselling.
The subject of marketing in business relationships is one that has gained
substantial signiﬁcance in theory and in practice over the last few decades. The
increase in relevance was triggered by fundamental changes in market processes
that vastly changed the rules in these competitive arenas.

1.1.1.1 Changes in the Field of Technology
Such changes have been and are still apparent in the ﬁelds characterized by
technical innovations. They affect the development and manufacturing processes
as well as application processes. The most pertinent ﬁelds include information
technology, communication technology, trafﬁc engineering, aerospace technology
and networking of various enabling technologies used in manufacturing and logis-
tics systems.

The technical advances are joined—particularly in the business-to-business
markets—by profound changes in sales activities and procurement activities
related to systems and process technology. In strategic investment situations
purchasers have absolute freedom of choice before committing to the technology-
based system; however, once they have made the investment decisions, they feel a
strong sense of being bound to the technology and/or the supplier. Decisions on
technology investments cause customers to make far-reaching commitments that
pre-determine future decisions.

It is not only technology that shapes this evolution: Distinctive, computer-
supported networking between customers and suppliers is a sign of this new age.
Just-in-time systems as extreme manifestation of networking and continuity of
supply relationships are a form of technology-based cooperation and are a funda-
mental industrial standard today. Electronic ordering and invoicing systems are also
parts of such systems. The business of complex systems for ofﬁce organization,
communication technology and factory automation has become increasingly impor-
tant—these are all ﬁelds in which customers see themselves as locked into decisions

6

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

made earlier on the one hand and foster expectations as to the future beneﬁts of
certain technologies on the other hand. Both of these reasons have made long-term
cooperation between suppliers and customers the predominant pattern.

Thus market transactions in the ﬁeld of new technologies should not be viewed
and interpreted as single transactions but
largely as decisions on whole
conglomerates of market transactions. This is why the suppliers’ marketing
strategies tend to be geared primarily towards one single customer (or a closely
linked conﬁguration of companies) and a sustainable solution to that customer’s
problems as well as towards customer and supplier both growing along with
technological advances.

1.1.1.2 Changing in the Field of Marketing
Innovations in the ﬁeld of technology are not the only catalyst for changing market
processes. Another factor is changing strategic behavior patterns that develop as a
result of the battle for competitive positions. Such patterns are not only a result of
changing technology, they actually have an impact on the market process. This
includes particularly evolving management and organizational structures within the
company (e.g. lean management, business process re-engineering, outsourcing) as
well as the general trend to consolidate while at the same time practicing division of
labor in regard to global competition. In a time of focusing on core competencies,
i.e. decreasing vertical manufacturing, the strategy of closer cooperation between
suppliers and customers (e.g. in the form of simultaneous engineering or concurrent
engineering) brings about substantial procurement concentration, with a declin-
ing number of suppliers per customer for a certain product. The increasing orders
for research and development are another reason for close cooperation between
suppliers and customers in these ﬁelds. A single customer can play such a signiﬁ-
cant role that he can himself represent a strategic business segment (e.g. an airline
as customer of a catering supplier; a telecommunications company for a producer of
communication technology).

Technical developments and changes in the ﬁeld of marketing have caused us to
observe a gradual narrowing of the market focus. Whereas it used to be the case that
marketing concepts tended to apply the guideline of attempting to reach as many
customers as possible with a certain range of products or services, nowadays the
focus is on a single customer or a small number of customers along with a
broadening of the problem solving perspective for the customer(s).

Carefully complied customer analysis and customer evaluation are applied to
satisfy strategically important customers and groups of customers to the greatest
extent possible. Figure 1.2 illustrates the correlation.

1.1.2 Definition of Business Relationship

In this section we consider a business relationship to be the consequence of market
transactions between a supplier and a customer that is not random. “Not random”
means that, on the part of the supplier and/or customer, there are reasons that either

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

7

Traditional focus

Focus on business relationship

Addressed
needs

Addressed
needs

Number of

customers reached

Number of

customers reached

Fig. 1.2 Business relationship management—altered market focus. Source: Based on Rogers and
Peppers (1994)

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

r
e
i
l
p
p
u
S

Initial 
purchase

Repurchase 

decision 

# 1

Repurchase 

decision 

# 2

Repurchase 

decision
# n -1

Transaction # 1

Transaction # 2

Transaction # 3

Transaction # n

Initial 
resale

Reselling 
decision 

# 1

Reselling 
decision 

# 2

Reselling 
decision
# n -1

Economically significant effects (history matters)
Potential anticipated effects (shadow of the future)

Time

Fig. 1.3 Business relationship as a series of transactions

make systematic linking of market transactions seem sensible or necessary or that
actually lead to linking. So a business relationship—as demonstrated in Fig. 1.3—
can be seen as a series of market transactions between which there is an inner
connection (Plinke 1989).

Every business relationship begins at the time of the ﬁrst transaction: the initial
purchase by the customer and the initial sale by the supplier. Once a business
relationship has been established, it leads to a respective number of repurchase
decisions on the part of the customer and reselling decisions for the supplier. The
fact that this happens and that it is “not random” can be attributed to economically
signiﬁcant factors—which will be explained in more detail—on both sides. Such
reasons can originate from past transactions (history matters) or due to potentially
anticipated effects that do not become relevant until subsequent transactions occur
(shadow of the future).

8

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

So in this sense—and to some extent in contrast to colloquial understanding—
not every meeting of business people representing the supplier and purchaser can be
considered a business relationship. Rather the focus of the previous deﬁnition is
more on understanding the business relationship as a “relationship between
businesses” in the sense of single market transactions conducted by identical
partners, i.e. the same supplier and customer companies.

This does not mean that “relational” elements affecting the relationship between
the negotiating parties are not relevant within such business transactions. This
applies even more as the transactions in question become more “complicated,”
meaning as more things need to be clariﬁed, as the partial services related to the
transactions grow, as the risk perceived by the involved parties increases, etc.

So for example, when a 3-year contract is entered for outsourcing all of a
company’s IT infrastructure, and then later during the term of the contract, there
are many aspects that have to be negotiated. And as a result of the contract many
contacts are made between various persons at different levels of the hierarchy in
both the supplier’s and the purchaser’s company. On the other hand, routine
procurement of wearing parts can be triggered with an online order; processing
and shipping are more or less automatic.

In scientiﬁc literature, these different (extreme) types of transactions are referred
to as “discrete” (in the sense of “simple”) and “relational” (in the sense of “com-
plex”). The respective features of the two types are shown in Fig. 1.4.

The characterizations clearly show that in relational transactions—as opposed to
discrete transactions—relationships between the participants (social contacts, reg-
ular sharing of information, proactive and cooperative conﬂict solving processes,
etc.) not only occur randomly, they are essential to mastering the wealth of tasks
related to developing and processing the transactions. Nevertheless, such a complex
and thus relational transaction can be a standalone transaction, not being dependent
in any way on a business relationship.

Discrete 

transactions

Relational
transactions

- Based on specific time
- Short-term 
- One-time transfer of ownership
- Without social contact
- Ad hoc sharing of information
- Reactive conflict resolution 

process 

- Time frame-related
- Long-term
- Repetitive transfer of ownership
- With social contact
- Regular, informal

sharing of information
- Proactive, cooperative 

conflict resolution process 

Fig. 1.4 Features of discrete and relational transactions. Source: Based on Macneil (1980),
Werner (1997), Zimmer (2000)

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

9

It does not become a business relationship—in the sense understood here—until

(cid:129) A second transaction follows the ﬁrst and the second transaction was entered into
because of the (positive) effect of the way in which the ﬁrst transaction was
completed or

(cid:129) Such a transaction was preceded by another transaction, the course and result of
which prompted the same partners to once again do business with one another.

Thus, there can be many different constellations of business relationships:
Sometimes there can be a sequence of relatively simple (routine) transactions,
sometimes a sequence of complex, long-term transactions, or a combination of
simpler or more complex transactions that occur more or less alternately. It is easy
to see that, depending on the shape of such constellations, the links between the
various transactions can vary greatly in the level of distinction (Palmatier
et al. 2006).

And the type of internal links can be vastly different as well. One can differenti-
ate between one-sided and mutual commitments, and it is imperative to differenti-
ate between the reference object of the internal link. Table 1.1 shows the ideal
possible cases.

Commitments between suppliers and customers can come about based on the
object of the transaction. This means that a customer is so convinced of the merits
of a purchased product or service (or is more or less dependent on acquiring it) that
the decision is made to purchase it again. Observed behavior patterns can be
subsumed under the concepts of brand loyalty (one-sided commitment to a product
brand), system loyalty (one-sided loyalty to a system architecture, e.g. Proﬁbus) or
loyalty to a technology (one-sided commitment
laser
technology).

to a technology, e.g.

When a buying company is one-sided oriented, it means that the customer ﬁrm is
loyal for reasons that best suit its own plans, regardless of the attitude or behavior of
the selling company. For his part, a selling company can also be loyal, when in
pursuing its own advantages it recognizes reasons to stay with one subject
(e.g. certain core competencies and core products) and to thus commit
one-sidedly to certain solution expectations. We refer to such commitments as

Table 1.1 Manifestations of business relationships

Reference object

Object reference

One-sided commitment
by purchaser

One-sided commitment
by purchaser
Mutual commitment

Brand loyalty
System loyalty
Loyalty to a
technology
Problem loyalty

Reciprocal business
relationship

Personal
reference

Personal
loyalty

Personal
loyalty
Personal
relationship

Company reference

Store loyalty
Supplier loyalty

Customer loyalty

Business relationship, in
the proper sense

10

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

problem loyalty. When the commitment is mutual, it may be based on a reciprocal
business relationship, e.g. when an automobile manufacturer supplies the majority
of the vehicle to a car rental company and, in return, has the rental company manage
its own ﬂeet ( ﬂeet management).

Commitment can also evolve from an afﬁnity to or between persons, whereby
there must again be differentiation between one-sided and mutual commitment.
This is referred to as personal loyalty when it is related to the individuals of
provider and/or a customer company; mutual afﬁnity is referred to as personal
relationships. The commonly used term is “business friendship.”

Finally, the corporation as such can be the reference object of a commitment,
regardless of persons and speciﬁc products or technologies. When the commitment
is one-sided on the part of the purchaser, supplier loyalty and store loyalty can be
typecast
(Wind 1966, 1970; Bubb and Van Rest 1973; Cunningham and
Kettlewood 1976; Bonoma et al. 1977; Jarvis and Wilcox 1977; Mathews
et al. 1977; Engelhardt 1979; Hannaford 1979). Supplier loyalty means that a
customer prefers to choose the same supplier, regardless of the problem and the
product in question. Accordingly, customer loyalty on the part of the supplier is a
manifestation of the loyalty. Customer loyalty means that, based solely on own
plans and independent of the attitude and behavior of the customer, the supplier is
interested in continuing the supply relationship with this customer. Mutual
commitments based on the respective partner company are to be typecast as
business relationships (in the proper sense).

There is obviously some overlap with these types. For example, loyalty to a
company can certainly go along with loyalty to persons or products or services.
However, this does not change the fact that there are commitments to companies
that have no reference to persons or objects.

We will now examine the ﬁeld in Table 1.2 that classiﬁes the business relation-
ship in the proper sense as a special type: Both parties have an interest in the
relationship—which does not eliminate the possibility that reasons for and intensity
of the commitments may be asymmetrical—and the reference object of the com-
mitment is the company. The business relationship will be examined by the type of
internal link between the transactions, looking at two dimensions: the situation of
the relationship before the commitment occurs (ex ante) and the situation after
(ex post); and the differentiation of whether the business relationship was planned
or whether it evolved de facto. There are four potential states; refer to Table 1.2.
The typology of the business relationships applies to both the supplier and the
customer; however, for now we will examine only the customer.

Table 1.2 Attributes of business relationships

Attributes of business relationships in the
proper sense

De facto business
relationship

Planned business
relationship

Ex ante situation

Ex post situation

Case 1a Isolated
transaction
Case 1b Creeping
commitment

Case 2a Strategic
decision
Case 2b Lock-in effect

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

11

1.1.2.1 Case 1a
Cases 1a and 1b describe the de-facto business relationship. Such a relationship
evolves unplanned and often unnoticed (Kleinaltenkamp 1993). Many aspects of
this are conventional wisdom. First case 1a: A customer wants to begin a transac-
tion with a supplier. S/he has no previous experience with this customer and expects
no repercussions on future transactions—it
is an isolated transaction. The
customer’s preference Z is the result of a simple comparison of the beneﬁts of the
two examined suppliers, S and SC. The preference ZN/S is simply the customer
beneﬁt that customer N reaps by choosing supplier S. The competitor SC represents
the comparison level for evaluation of supplier S.

The de-facto business relationship (case 1a)

1ð Þ ZN=S ¼ bS   cS

ð

>

0

Þ   bSC   cSC

ð

Þ

with

¼ Preference of customer N towards supplier S (customer beneﬁt)

¼ Beneﬁt of transaction with S or SC

ZN/S
bS; bSC
cS; cSC¼ Cost of transaction with S or SC

The customer will initiate the transaction if Z is positive. There is no commitment
and the customer feels free to choose the same supplier or a different one next time—
s/he is ﬂexible. However, the options become limited when we examine case 1b.

1.1.2.2 Case 1b
There has already been a preceding market transaction that occurred without the
intention of entering into subsequent transactions. In this case, the determinants for
a second potential repurchase decision are related to the customer’s experience
with the initial purchase. All of the elements in deﬁnition (1) were initially expec-
tation values and now, as far as supplier S is concerned, are values based on
experience. The simplest way to explain a repurchase is the conﬁrmation of
expectations by the experiences. Supplier S asserts the customer beneﬁt ceteris
paribus based on his or her own behavior, because the customer is satisﬁed with the
purchase decision and does not change his or her opinion of the selected supplier.
In this case the way the customer evaluates the supplier generally changes—and
these changes tend to reinforce the inclination to repurchase. A signiﬁcant factor is
the reduction in the risk of cost-beneﬁt determination. When presented with the
choice between two suppliers who otherwise appear to be equal, in the future the
customer will prefer the supplier with the lower risk, meaning that the customer
beneﬁt increases based on the experience that is reﬂected as a decrease in risk.

Furthermore, the customer’s transaction costs fall due to experiences: Routinization
of decision making processes, which can be attributed to deﬁned interfaces to suppliers,
proven sample contracts and equally proven social relationships to the supplier, reduce

12

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

the efforts related to procurement in new transactions. trust as a component of the
attitude towards to supplier is established. It can be claimed with a high degree of
certainty that, the more complex the transactions, the more quickly and more compre-
hensively the effect of experience as reductions in transaction costs occurs.

So in comparison to case 1a, something has changes in case 1b, and it was
completely unintentional. A creeping commitment has occurred in the timing,
reducing the number of potential suppliers from the customer’s point of view
(creeping commitment, based on (Robinson et al. 1967).

If in a de-facto business relationship it happens that, after one or more market
transactions the expectations are not met for a speciﬁc market transaction, the result
is dissatisfaction. Which conditions could cause a customer to switch suppliers or
to be willing to repurchase? First of all, the customer will repurchase if the
perceived discrepancy between expectations and experiences is less than the sub-
jective value of the savings in transaction costs. A certain degree of lethargy on the
part of the customer can play a role: One becomes accustomed to the supplier and
does not run away just because one is dissatisﬁed in a single case.

If dissatisfaction grows, the existence of switching costs must now be taken into
consideration to explain the repurchase behavior. The customer will feel that there
is something that binds him or her to supplier S or, in other words, that it will cost
him or her something to switch from S to SC.

Keep in mind that costs are not only monetary: Anything related to switching
that the customer perceives as strenuous, unpleasant, risky or time-consuming is
considered for this purpose to be a cost of switching (Refer to Sect. 4.2). In the case
examined here, a certain type of switching costs in relevant: The experience gained
with the current supplier becomes worthless, meaning getting to know one another,
establishing trust, functioning together, etc. can be of value only with this supplier.
When the customer switches suppliers, the learning curve for transaction costs is
replaced by a new learning curve (Refer to Fig. 1.5).The hatched area symbolizes
the value of the switching costs cS/SC in this case.

Thus deﬁnition (1) must be modiﬁed in regard to the costs and beneﬁts of
supplier S from expectation values to values based on experience and expanded
to include the amount of the direct switching costs cS/SC.

The de-facto business relationship (case 1b)

ð

¼ bS   cS

Þ  

2ð Þ

ZN=S

ð

>

0

bSC   cSC





Þ   cS=SC

with

ZN/S¼ Preference of customer N compared to supplier S (customer beneﬁt)
bS; bSC¼ Beneﬁt of transaction with S or SC
cS; cSC¼ Cost of transaction with S or SC
cS/SC¼ Direct costs of switching from supplier S to supplier SC

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

13

Trans-
action 
costs 
per €
procure-
ment
value

Supplier B

Supplier A

1 2 3 4

*

Supplier switch
Switching costs

1
*

2 3 4

Transactions with A, B

Fig. 1.5 Switching costs based on experience

If the equation (2) clearly differs from the value of (1) positively, the customer’s
loyalty to the supplier has evolved creepingly. Along with effects of an experience
of sustainable customer satisfaction, reduction of risk due to experience and the
decrease in transaction costs, the switching costs may be reason enough for a
customer to remain loyal to a supplier.

1.1.2.3 Case 2a
In the case of a planned business relationship, the customer (and generally the
supplier as well) assumes from the start that cooperation will be long-term. It is
clear to the participants that investments speciﬁc to the relationship will be incurred
and that commitments will arise from which one can free oneself only by accepting
the cost thereof. At the same time, one anticipates beneﬁts that can result from
entering into the business relationship. Such a decision making situation is consid-
ered by the customer to be strategic, when it results in far-reaching commitments
that can vastly inﬂuence the chances of success, the costs and the ﬂexibility of the
customer. It is generally the sometimes extreme commitment that the customer
feels to the business partner that is decisive. The customer ﬁrm often feels com-
pelled to invest in hardware and software to be able to enter into a supplier-
customer relationship—just
joint development
projects with the supplier or value-adding partnerships. This includes the choice
of supplier when inventing in plant automation. The customer will take into
consideration this restriction in ﬂexibility for the assessments when beginning a

think of just-in-time systems,

14

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

relationship with a supplier, meaning that the freedom that needs to by sacriﬁced
must be compensated by appropriate—anticipated or expected—beneﬁts of doing
business with the supplier (Ulaga and Eggert 2006; Saab 2007). Before committing
to a relationship, it is essential to estimate the beneﬁts of the relationship as well as
to assess the risks, meaning the damage that can result for failure to reap the beneﬁts
once the commitment has been made. The investments that the customer has made
to initiate the supply relationship—and the anticipated values—must be considered
to basically be lost when the supplier is switched; comparable investments must
then be made for a different supplier. This raises the barriers that the customer faces
to ending the business relationship accordingly.

The customer will make the commitment to S when the ex-ante analysis of the
comparison to supplier SC indicates that a relationship with S is more beneﬁcial.
Because no choice has been made before the time of this decision, the two potential
business relationships with S and SC are illustrated as simple net present value
models. The customer’s preference Z in relation to S is the difference between the
two net present values, taking into consideration the respective speciﬁc investments
in the business relationship. Since in an ex-ante situation the anticipated exit
barriers appear the same as entry barriers, the preference for supplier S under the
same conditions increases as the anticipated costs for switching from S to SC
decrease (The opposite applies from SC to S). This is why the anticipated switching
costs with a negative value must be considered.

ZN/S is the present value of the relationship with S minus the present value of the
relationship with SC. If this value is greater than zero, the customer will choose S
and enter into a relationship. To simplify the process, the probability of the
alternatives S and SC is considered to be equal. This seems permissible since we
are not dealing with a planning model but with the fundamental deﬁnition of the
conditions for the success of business relationships.

3ð Þ ZN=S

The planned business relationship (case 2a)
Þ 1 þ i
¼
ð
  AS0 þ Σ bSt   cSt
    ASC0 þ Σ bSCt   cSCt
Þ 1 þ i
ð
0

ð
ð

>



Þ t   ΣcS=SCt 1 þ i
Þ t
Þ t   ΣcSC=St 1 þ i
ð
Þ 

ð







with

¼ Beneﬁts of business relationship with S or SC in t

¼ Investment in business relationship with S or SC in t0

 AS0;—ASC0
bSt; bSCt
cSt; cSCt ¼ Cost of business relationship with S or SC in t
cS/SCt; cSC/St¼ Direct cost of switching from S to SC or from SC to S in t
i¼ Required rate of return
t¼ Planning period

This deﬁnition reveals the signiﬁcance of long-term risk management in busi-
ness relationships with strong dependencies. So for example, suppliers of computer-
aided production technology must place particular emphasis on establishing trust

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

15

when acquiring new customers. They have to assure their customers that they can
keep up with the latest technology over the long term. It becomes apparent that
customer recognize and evaluate competitive advantages related not only to single
market transactions but to business relationships as well.

1.1.2.4 Case 2b
When the decision has been made to choose supplier S, the result—based on
Williamson (1985)—is the so-called “Lock-in effect”: The customer is loyal to
the chosen suppliers, because a commitment has been made that makes it difﬁcult to
switch. The customer will remain loyal to this relationship as long as the “damage”
in comparison to the net beneﬁts is less than the now anticipated switching costs,
meaning as long as the value ZN/S is greater than zero.

The planned business relationship (case 2b)

Σ bSt  cSt
ð

Þ 1þ i
ð

Þ t

 

Σ bSCt  cSCt
ð

Þ 1þ i
ð

Þ t

þ 

ΣcS=SCt 1þ i

ð

Þ t



0

4ð Þ ZN=S

¼ 

>

with

 AS0;—ASC0¼ Investment in business relationship with S or SC in t0
bSt; bSCt¼ Beneﬁts of business relationship with S or SC in t
cSt; cSCt ¼ Cost of business relationship with S or SC in t
cS/SCt; cSC/St
i¼ Required rate of return
t¼ Planning period

¼ Direct cost of switching from S to SC or from SC to S in t

The customer’s ﬂexibility is determined not only by experiences with the perfor-
mance of the current supplier. Actually, factors outside of the supplier-purchaser
dyad can change expectations related to beneﬁts and costs, which in turn inﬂuence
the decision of whether to stay with the supplier or to switch. Actions of competitors
or additional competitors can change the comparison level for the current suppliers.
Technological and structural developments can also change the customer’s attitude
(evaluation of the beneﬁts offered by the current supplier). Other exogenous factors
such as new laws are also aspects that can have an inﬂuence.

As previously mentioned,

the current examination of a dyadic supplier-
purchaser relationship does not always correspond to actual conditions. Multi-
level business relationships often exist (e.g. component supplier—system sup-
plier—operator). And frequently several suppliers work together to solve a
customer’s problem, which can lead to complex structures in business relationships.
Another dimension that adds to the complexity is the multi-personality of the
decision-making process in the organizations involved (Fließ 2000).

To summarize: A business relationship is a consequence of market transactions
between a supplier and a purchaser that is not random. “Not random” means two
things. Either there are reasons on the part of the supplier and/or customer that make

16

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

a planned link between market transactions appear practical or necessary (planned
business relationship based on aspects of beneﬁts or dependency). Then speciﬁc
investments are made in the business relationship. Or there are reasons that de facto
lead to a link (de-facto relationship, e.g. due to habit or learning processes). In such
a case values emerge in the relationship that would result in a loss were the
relationship to be dissolved. In both cases, the business relationship has a more or
less positive signiﬁcance for both parties (positive net beneﬁt). Investments,
accumulated and developed values, and signiﬁcance are thus the general commit-
ment
link” between the repeated market
transactions.

the “internal

forces that

reﬂect

1.2

Internationalization of Business Relationships

A primary challenge to the management of business relationships is the increasing
internationalization of such relationships. Paul Krugman, one of the most inﬂuential
business journalists in the USA, emphasizes the potential of international division
of labor (Krugman 1999). According to Krugman, the essence of globalization is
not that an increasing number of participants have to share an existing economic
pie. Rather globalization can generate additional prosperity by greater international
division of labor. Globalization is understood in this sense as a process of
expanding the potential for international division of labor, primarily by reducing
the costs of communication and transport and by dismantling trade barriers. Global-
ization affects two areas: It provides many more ways to create value, offering more
activities with which a company can create value for its customers, and it extends
and expands the potential markets.

trade immediately present

By merging production capacities in the course of specialization and division of
labor, additional cost beneﬁts and potential for prosperity can be realized. Inter-
national division of labor and international
two
problems: Producers can concentrate on a limited product range and better
economies of scale. This is enabled by international trade, which grants access to
new markets. And consumers beneﬁt from a wider range of available products.
International division of labor and international trade offer consumers millions of
product variations in the ﬁeld of automobiles without excessively high price tags.
In addition to the prosperity promoted by the international cooperation, the
intensive international competition is a source of growing prosperity for
consumers. The process of globalization causes the number of suppliers and buyers
to increase. Since in many markets more and more suppliers are competing for a
scarce commodity that not all suppliers can have (the purchasing power of
consumers), the competition tends to become ﬁerce. Free trade impedes the
establishment of national monopolies or cartels. Free access to the market is thus
an effective agent in combating the establishment of market power on the supplier
side. However, in recent years it can increasingly be observed that companies
attempt to face the challenge of international competition with a global monopoly.

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

17

Total costs

Coordination
costs

Costs
(C)

Total
costs
minimum

Production costs

Cost-optimized degree
of division of labor

Division of labor (A)

Fig. 1.6 Production and transaction costs as a function of the degree of division of labor

The process of globalization, which has accelerated steadily over recent years, is
facilitated by a reduction in the coordination costs of international division of labor.
From the economic point of view, the degree of international division of labor is
determined particularly by the transaction costs—meaning the cost of coordinating
the division of labor (Refer to Chap. 2). As the division of labor increases, the
transaction costs progress in exactly the opposite direction of the production costs
(Refer to Fig. 1.6).

While the production costs decrease as the degree of division of labor between
international business relationship partners increases due to the effects of special-
ization and economies of scale, the need for coordination and thus the transaction
costs rise as division of labor increases.

The causes of a potential reduction in production costs due to international
cooperation have become well know, primarily through the work of Adam Smith
and David Ricardo (So¨llner 2008). Even after many modiﬁcations and
advancements of their work, the added beneﬁts of cooperation can be attributed
primarily to two main aspects:

1. The parties have different (absolute and comparative) cost items, making

specialization and exchange of commodities beneﬁcial.

2. The parties possess very different resources and capabilities. The makes it
possible to increase the variety and quality of the solutions offered, meaning
the products and services (Krugman 1999). This sometimes has far-reaching
consequences for the (re)structuring of the respective value-added chain
(Kleinaltenkamp 2007).

The generally rising transaction costs can be attributed primarily to the increas-
ing complexity of international transactions. A few examples illustrating the

18

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

increased need for coordination in regard to international business relationships as
opposed to domestic cooperative relationships are: cultural differences, different
legal conditions, higher communication costs, national borders and isolated eco-
nomic areas. Additional examples are easy to ﬁnd.

When examining both transaction costs and production costs as a factor of the
degree of division of labor, there is a point—the minimum of the total costs curve in
the graph—at which an additional increase in international division of labor does
not lead to a gain in prosperity. Thus transaction costs limit the expansion of
international division of labor. At a certain point, intensifying international business
relationships even more does not make sense, because the production cost
advantages related to division of labor are consumed by higher transaction costs.

But in recent years there have been vastly different developments particularly in
regard to transaction costs. On the one hand, new security risks have led to a rise in
transaction costs (Bru¨ck and Schumacher 2004). On the other hand, advances in
technology in the communication ﬁeld, the decreasing cost of shipping, as well as
political developments opening formerly closed markets have caused transaction
costs to go down. This contributed to the permanent growth of various markets. In
some branches it only makes sense to talk about a global market—in regard to the
sales market as well as to procurement markets. This development is reﬂected in an
unprecedented surge of offshoring and outsourcing (Pajak 2006) and in a complete
re-design of companies’ value chains.

There are actual many indications that the revolution in information and com-
munication technologies enables completely new forms of cooperation for which
neither place nor time overlap is required to perform various partial services.
In fact, people from different places around the world can work together with no
time restraints whatsoever. International business relationships, networks and vir-
tual organizations as a special type of network are becoming more and more of a
business
reality. The dissolution of vertically integrated and diversiﬁed
corporations into networks is described by Miles and Snow (1986) like this:
“Business functions such as product design and development, manufacturing,
marketing, and distribution, typically conducted within a single organization, are
performed by independent organizations within a network” (Miles and Snow 1986).
According to Sydow (1992), corporate networks can be distinguished by close
coordination amongst the network parties while still retaining legal and sometimes
the economic independence (Sydow 1992).

A wealth of differently organized participants tend to gather around core
corporations, which are in turn surrounded by many cooperative relationships
with other participants. Corporate networks consisting of business relationships of
differing intensity represent an opposite pole to forms of business organizations
with long-term, deﬁned restrictions between internal and external matters, strong
locational ties and a relatively stable allocation of resources (Picot et al. 2003).

In light of such development, it becomes a central and new challenge to
management to analyze the consequences of the output of goods and services in
value-adding chains and networks when such goods and services are being pro-
duced in different places at different times and through a division of labor. To take

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

19

advantage of the opportunities presented by business relationships and networks, it
is essential to critically examine the chances and risks of these new organizational
principles.

As previously mentioned, the reduction in transaction costs resulting from the
rapid advances in information and communication technology (I&C technology)
have been the driving force in increasing internationalization of business
relationships between companies and their networking of autonomous participants.
This technological factor is reinforced by many other developments at different
levels (Picot et al. 2003):

1. The level of the corporate environment
2. The level of the corporation’s market relationships
3. The level of the organization and its members.

The question of location can be resolved at the corporate environment level not
only by the rapid technological advances but also because of other changes driving
progress. The development and promotion of business clusters as well as cross-
border clusters are a measure applied in regional politics to offer an opportunity to
promote economic survival in structurally weak areas (European Commission
1994).

At the market relationships level of a company, trends toward globalization not
only offer opportunities for companies and participants to network, they virtually
compel networking. The new market opportunities that companies have in interna-
tional markets are countered by new competitive pressure. A company can meet
this pressure by increasing its innovative force and improving its cost efﬁciency.
The innovative force can be strengthened by including the best and most capable
companies and people in the value-adding process. Since it is safe to assume that
talent and readiness for action are not concentrated in one location but spread across
different locations around the world, a corporation can increase its innovative
capacity by networking the knowledge holders. In regard to cost efﬁciency,
companies working as networks can achieve progress e.g. by consciously using
regional differences in certain costs (wages, R&D costs, etc.) to their advantage
when planning their cost positions. Different time zones, working hours, etc. can
also effect additional acceleration. Cross-border division of labor is a unique
challenge to suppliers and purchasers in this situation (Nguyen and Nguyen
2010). There are also different attitudes on the different forms of division of
labor that can be attributed to the various cultures (Homburg et al. 2009) and
(Andersen et al. 2009).

At the level of the organization, there are clear indications that members of the
organizations—particularly those who are employees of an organization—now
have greater demands and expectations of their employment. Especially the desire
and the necessity to reconcile work and personal/family life have led employees to
seek greater ﬂexibility. New, networked organizational forms such as telework
enable the employees’ desire for greater ﬂexibility and self-determination to

20

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

become a fundamental principle of the organization. This creates the conditions for
more highly motivated employees and for attracting valuable new employees.

So at all three levels grounds can be found for the increasing signiﬁcance of
business relationships and corporate networks, including those taking place in an
international context.

1.3

Responsibility in Business Relationships

Globalization and internationalization of
the value-adding chains of many
companies have created new opportunities for companies and consumers. At the
same time, the discussion of morally appropriate corporate behavior has been taken
up again. Especially the working conditions of foreign partners in business
relationships have moved more and more into the public eye (Table 1.3).

Example 1: Catastrophic Conditions at Asian Suppliers to Motorola, Nokia
and co

Famine wages, poisoning, 13-h shifts and 7-day weeks—according to a study
conducted by the Dutch organization “Stichting Onderzoeg Multinationale
Ondernemingen” (Somo, Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations)
on behalf of the EU commission, Dutch ministries and trade unions, the
working conditions at some of the suppliers to the world’s largest mobile
phone producers are catastrophic. Nokia (Finland), Motorola (USA),
Samsung and Sony Ericsson purchase vast quantities from suppliers who
force their employees to work under inhumane conditions. For example, the
Chinese supplier Hivac Startech produces acrylic lenses for mobile phones of
Motorola in the Special Economic Zone Shenzhen near Shanghai. There are
no adequate measures available to protect the employees from the toxic
substance n-hexane contained in the solution used to polish the lenses. Nine
employees had to be treated in hospital for acute poisoning. According to
Somo, one of the women had to have an abortion as a result of the poisoning.
Joseph Wilde, one of the co-authors of the Somo study, is convinced that
these distressing revelations are not isolated cases: “This is a fundamental
problem of the entire mobile communications industry.” Pricing pressure in
the industry and the resulting “complex supply chains” have caused even
major corporations such as Nokia and Motorola to lose sight of their suppliers
(Wendel 2006).

The general public as well as many consumers judge these and similar cases
critically. This means that corporations and managers must examine the behavior of
their business partners as intensively as they do their own. And it is deﬁnitely not
easy for them to ﬁnd their place in the ﬁeld of tension between acceptance by
society and increasing competitive pressure.

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

21

Table 1.3 Working conditions at mobile phone suppliers

Supplier companies
(selection)

Hivac Startech
(China)
Giant Wireless
(China)
Kangyou Electronics
(China)
LTEC (Thailand)

Source: Wendel (2006)

Customers

Hours per
workday

Weekly wage in US
dollars

Workdays per
week

Motorola

10–12

0.24

Motorola

10–13

10–13

0.12 (2003) 0.44
(2006)
0.33–0.37

Nokia

12

0.32

7

6–7

7

7

High moral acceptance
High moral acceptance

III. 
III. 

Economic 
conflict

IV.
IV.

Negative 

compatibility

I.
I.

Positive

compatibility

II.
II.

Moral 
conflict

High
profitability

Low 
profitability

Fig. 1.7 Homann’s four-quadrant graph. Source: Based on Homann (1994, p. 116)

Low moral acceptance
Low moral acceptance

Karl Homann can contribute signiﬁcantly to orientation in business relationship
management with his ﬁndings. Homann recognizes the long-existing conﬂict
between economic rationality and moral behavior and illustrates it clearly in his
four-quadrant graph (Refer to Fig. 1.7). The two axes represent the effect of a
certain corporate action—e.g. choosing a certain partner for a business relation-
ship—in relation to the moral acceptance of the action as well as to the proﬁtability
of the acting corporation.

Quadrant I describes the case of a complementary relationship between moral
behavior and economic success. This can potentially be the result of the economic
regulatory framework demanding and enforcing morally correct behavior of all
competitors, meaning that, when the rules are followed, there are no sanctions
imposed that would have a detrimental effect economically. Or it can be the beneﬁt
of proﬁtably “selling” moral behavior, e.g. by using it for effective advertising.

Quadrant II demonstrates a case in which corporate behavior—even when it is
legal—does not reconcile with the moral expectations of a society. The company
decides is this conﬂict for proﬁt and against morals. This decision—to the extent
that it is even substantiated—is usually justiﬁed by pointing out the competitive
pressure. Critical news coverage—as in the case of Motorola—can cause

22

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

corporations to rethink their policies when they have a negative effect on proﬁt-
ability targets.

Like quadrant II, quadrant III represents a conﬂicting relationship between
proﬁtability and moral acceptance. However, in this case the company chose
morals, thus rejecting proﬁtability.

Quadrant IV stands for the case in which an action is neither accepted nor
proﬁtable. Withdrawal from the market is a probable strategy in this case (Homann
1994).

Homann’s graph clearly demonstrates that moral behavior under conditions of
strong competitive pressure can pose a problem for a company. A regulatory
framework that consistently integrates and enforces moral requirements would
resolve the conﬂict between morally correct behavior and economically rational
behavior in a competitive environment. Such a framework would specify moral
expectations as restrictions applicable to all market participants. Competition
would occur as “plays” within the rules of the game and not as violation of moral
standards. But, particularly in the international context, such a framework as the
“systematic place of morals” (Homann 1994) is still far away. The countries have
virtually no chance of effectively enforcing an economic framework on interna-
tionally operating corporations. This deﬁcit is offset only partially by the rules of
the game at the level of regional afﬁliations, by WTO rules or by monitoring
by NGOs.

Thus, the conﬂicts demonstrated above as cases II and II will often occur in
reality. Homann considers two types of strategies feasible as a reaction on the part
of the corporations: The competitive strategy and the regulatory policy strategy.
The competitive strategy is aimed at showing moral behavior because the
partners to the transaction prefer business partners with moral integrity or are
potentially interested in such partners. This preference can relate to vastly different
reference objects, such as products, production methods, emphasis on employees or
environment, etc. It is principally about discovering opportunities for proﬁt that are
based on morally acceptable behavior. This would reconcile moral and economic
goals (Homann 1994).

A concept such as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR can also be consi-
dered a competitive strategy. CSR means that companies behave in an ethical
manner and, as “good citizens,” accept responsibility for society that goes beyond
the responsibility of their corporate activities. However, Homann believes that such
a concept will be implemented only when it also means economic success for the
respective company. “No one can expect a company to accept severe economic
disadvantages for its morally correct behavior, while competitors acting with fewer
morals reap all the proﬁts” (Homann 1991).

Even when a competitive strategy is not feasible, corporations are not divested of
their ethical responsibility. They are then obligated to point out the deﬁcits of the
existing framework with a regulatory strategy and to work towards abolishing
such deﬁcits (Homann 1994). One example of a regulatory strategy is the active
support of the “Global Compact” initiative of the former general secretary of the
United Nations, Koﬁ Annan (So¨llner 2008).

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

23

Case Study: Nike

Nike is as successful company that designs, sells and markets sporting goods
but does not produce the items themselves. It instead consistently takes
advantage of the opportunities presented by the global division of labor.
Nike’s manufacturing has been completely outsourced. Sometimes there are
isolated market transactions with external manufacturers, but often the com-
pany relies on long-term business relationships.

In the early 1990s, a campaign was initiated to damage the corporation’s
image: Nike was publicly sharply criticized for the working conditions
imposed by its suppliers (Locke and Romis 2009):

After initial defensive reactions, in 1992 Nike became proactive and
formulated a “Code of Conduct” that all of its suppliers had to sign and
publicize within their companies. The code obligates suppliers to comply
with certain standards regarding the environment, working conditions, health
and safety in the workplace. To enforce the “Code of Conduct” at the
suppliers’
facilities, Nike conducted numerous training courses with
suppliers. A team made up of 90 compliance ofﬁcers in 21 countries was
put together to monitor compliance with the “Code of Conduct.” About 1,000
production managers work directly with the suppliers. All Nike employees
responsible for production and compliance receive training on the Code of
Conduct, particularly in regard to labor standards, intercultural awareness and
Nike’s program “Safety, Health, Attitudes of Management, People Invest-
ment and Environment” (SHAPE).

Three different audits at the suppliers’ facilities are also performed. The
three audits are: a basic SHAPE audit; a more extensive audit of management
and working conditions (M-audit); and regular monitoring by the Fair Labor
Association (FLA). The FLA is a certiﬁed non-proﬁt multi-stakeholder orga-
nization that conducts independent external monitoring to assess compliance
with relevant standards on the part of participating corporations.

Research results show that, on the one hand, Nike’s suppliers perform
above average in factory audits. At the same time, the investigations also
reveal that the working conditions in the various supplier companies from one
and the same country differ vastly, from exemplary companies to those that
violate the standards.

Exercises

1. Deﬁne marketing in business relationships. To what extent does marketing in

business relationships support the existence of a company in the market?

24

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

2. State and explain the essential catalysts for changes in market processes and
explain how these catalysts have contributed to the increasing signiﬁcance of
marketing in business relationships.

3. Explain the difference between “discrete transactions” and “relational

transactions.” What is the difference between the two types of transactions?

4. Explain the various reference objects of loyalty or commitment within a business

relationship.

5. Explain the different types and the features of business relationships.
6. Explain how transaction costs affect the degree of international division of labor.
7. How can the lack of an economic framework affect a corporation’s behavior in
the market? Refer speciﬁcally to the moral acceptance of behavior as well as to
the company’s proﬁt goals.

Nike Case Study

1. Discuss the beneﬁts that may be reaped by Nike outsourcing its production.
2. How does management differ when Nike performs isolated market transactions
with suppliers as opposed to transactions within close business relationships?
List arguments and systematize them.

3. To what extent does management of moral standards belong to management of
business relationships and networks? Compare Nike’s behavior to Homann’s
approach and assess Nike’s course of action.

References

Abell, D. F. (1980). Deﬁning the business—The starting point of strategic planning. Englewood

Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

Andersen, P. H., Christensen, P. R., & Damgaard, T. (2009). Diverging expectations in buyer–
seller relationships: Institutional contexts and relationship norms. Industrial Marketing Man-
agement, 38(7), 814–824. doi:10.1016/j.indmarman.2008.04.016.

Backhaus, K., & Schneider, H. (2009). Strategisches marketing (2nd ed.). Stuttgart: Scha¨ffer-

Poeschel.

Bonoma, T., Zaltman, G., & Johnston, W. (1977). Industrial buying behavior. Cambridge, MA:

Marketing Science Institute.

Bru¨ck, T., & Schumacher, D. (2004). Die wirtschaftlichen Folgen des internationales Terrorismus.

Beilage zur Wochenzeitung Das Parlament., 44–46.

Bubb, P. L., & Van Rest, D. J. (1973). Loyalty as a component of the industrial buying decision.

Industrial Marketing Management, 3(1), 25–32.

Cunningham, M. T., & Kettlewood, K. (1976). Source loyalty in the freight transport market.
doi:10.1108/

paper]. European

10(1),

Journal

of Marketing,

60–79.

[Research
EUM0000000005038.

Engelhardt, W. H. (1979). Bezugsquellensicherung. In W. Kern (Ed.), Handwo¨rterbuch der

Produktionswirtschaft (pp. 362–372). Stuttgart: C.E. Poeschel Verlag.

European Commission (1994). Europas Weg in die Informationsgesellschaft, Mitteilung der
Kommission an den Rat und das Europ€aische Parlament sowie an den Wirtschafts- und
Sozialausschuss den Ausschuss der Regionen. Bru¨ssel, 19/07/1994

1 Phenomenon and Challenge to Management

25

Fließ, S. (2000). Industrielles Kaufverhalten. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke (Eds.),
Technischer Vertrieb - Grundlagen des Business-to-Business Marketing (2nd ed.,
pp. 251–369). Berlin: Springer.

Hannaford, W. J. (1979). How Effective is Systems Purchasing. Journal of Purchasing and

Materials Management, Summer, 15, 13–19.

Homann, K. (1991). Der Sinn der Unternehmensethik in der Marktwirtschaft. In H. e. a. Corsten

(Ed.), Die soziale Dimension der Unternehmung (pp. 97–118). Berlin: Schmidt Erich.

Homann, K. (1994). Marktwirtschaft und Unternehmensethik. In S. e. a. Blasche (Ed.), Markt und
Moral. Die Diskussion um die Unternehmensethik, Bern et al.: Haupt (Vol. St. Galler Beitra¨ge
zur Wirtschaftsethik pp. 109–130). Haupt.

Homburg, C., Cannon, J. P., Krohmer, H., & Kiedaisch, I. (2009). Governance of international
business relationships: A cross-cultural study on alternative governance modes. Journal of
International Marketing, 17(3), 1–20. doi:10.1509/jimk.17.3.1.

Jarvis, L. P., & Wilcox, J. B. (1977). True vendor loyalty or simply repeat purchase behavior?

Industrial Marketing Management, 6(1), 9–14. doi:10.1016/0019-8501(77)90027-X.

Kleinaltenkamp, M. (1993). Institutioneno¨konomische Begru¨ndung der Gescha¨ftsbeziehung. In
“Beziehungsmanagement” der
K. Backhaus, & H. Diller
wissenschaftlichen Kommission f€ur Marketing im Verband der Hochschullehrer f€ur Betriebs-
wirtschaftslehre (pp. 8–39).

(Eds.), Arbeitsgruppe

Kleinaltenkamp, M. (2007). New value chains.

In O. Plo¨tner, & R. Spekmann (Eds.),

Bringing technology to market.

Krugman, P. (1999). Der Mythos vom globalen Wirtschaftskrieg. Eine Abrechnung mit den

Pop-O¨konomen. Frankfurt: Campus-Verlag.

Locke, R. M., & Romis, M. (2009). The promise and perils of private voluntary regulation: Labor
standards and work organization in two Mexican garment factories. Review of International
Political Economy, 17(1), 45–74. doi:10.1080/09692290902893230.

Macneil, I. R. (1980). The new social contract: An inquiry into modern contractual relations.

New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.

Mathews, L. H., Wilson, D. T., & Backhaus, K. (1977). Selling to the computer assisted buyer.

Industrial Marketing Management, 6(4), 307–315.

Miles, R. E., & Snow, C. C.

(1986). Organizations: new concepts

for new forms.

California Contemporary Management Review, 28(2), 68–73.

Nguyen, T. T. M., & Nguyen, T. D. (2010). Learning to build quality business relationships in
export markets: Evidence from Vietnamese exporters. Asia Paciﬁc Business Review, 16(1–2),
203–220. doi:10.1080/13602380802280009.

Pajak, D. (2006). Konﬂiktfeld Offshoring – Auswirkungen von Standortentscheidungen auf

Mitarbeiter in multinationalen Unternehmen. Saarbru¨cken: VDM Verlag Dr. Mu¨ller.

Palmatier, R. W., Dant, R. P., Grewal, D., & Evans, K. R. (2006). Factors inﬂuencing the
effectiveness of relationship marketing: A meta-analysis. Journal of Marketing, 70, 136–153.
Pfeffer, J., & Salancik, G. R. (1978). The external control of organizations: A resource depen-

dence perspective (Stanford Business Classics). Stanford, CA: Stanford Business Books.

Picot, A., Reichwald, R., & Wigand, R. T. (2003). Die grenzenlose Unternehmung: Information,
Or-ganisation und Management—Lehrbuch zur Unternehmensf€uhrung im Informations-
zeitalter. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Plinke, W. (1989). Die Gescha¨ftsbeziehung als Investition. In G. Specht, G. Silberer, &
W. Engelhardt (Eds.), Marketing-Schnittstellen. Herausforderungen f€ur das Management
(pp. 305–325). Stuttgart

Robinson, P. J., Faris, C. W., & Wind, Y. (1967). Industrial buying and creative marketing.

Boston, MA: Allyn & Bacon.

Rogers, M., & Peppers, D. (1994). Relationship marketing—Planning for share of customer, not
market share. In J. N. Sheth & A. Parvatiyar (Eds.), Relationship marketing—Theory, methods
and applications (p. 428). Atlanta: Business School Emory University.

26

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

Saab, S. (2007). Commitment in Gesch€aftsbeziehungen. Konzeptualisierung und Operationa-
(Business-to-Business-Marketing).

das Business-to-Business-Marketing

f€ur

lisierung
Wiesbaden: DUV.

So¨llner, A. (2008). Einf€uhrung in das internationale Management: eine institutioneno¨konomische

Perspektive. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Sydow, J. (1992). Strategische Netzwerke—Evolution und Organisation. Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Ulaga, W., & Eggert, A. (2006). Value-based differentiation in business relationships: Gaining and
sustaining key supplier status. Journal of Marketing, 70(1), 119–136. doi:10.1509/jmkg.2006.
70.1.119.

Utzig, B. (1996). Kundenorientierung. Berlin.
Wendel, T. (2006). Neun Cent Stundenlohn in der Handy-Fabrik. Berliner Zeitung, 281(1/12/

2006).

Werner, H. (1997). Relationales Beschaffungsverhalten. Auspr€agungen und Determinanten.

Wiesbaden: Springer.

Williamson, O. E. (1985). The economic institutions of capitalism. New York: Free Press.
Wind, Y. (1966). Industrial buying behavior—Source loyalty in the purchase of industrial

components. Stanford, CA: Stanford University.

Wind, Y. (1970). Industrial source loyalty. Journal of Marketing Research, 7(4), 450–457. doi:10.

2307/3149637.

Zimmer, P. (2000). Commitment in Gesch€aftsbeziehungen. Wiesbaden: Deutscher Universita¨ts-

Verlag.

Theoretical Perspectives of Business
Relationships: Explanation
and Configuration

2

Michael Kleinaltenkamp, Wulff Plinke, and Albrecht So¨ llner

2.1

Theoretical Approaches to Explaining Business
Relationships: Classification

The ﬁrst chapter of this book presents the business relationship as a form of
exchange and sharing amongst companies. Without expressly mentioning it, this
already includes various theoretical perspectives regarding the phenomenon “busi-
ness relationship” as well as potential constellations. It is obvious that, depending
on the theoretic perspective chosen, a business relationship can be explained in
different ways and the subsequent recommended actions can also vary.

As this chapter will show, research approaches to marketing in business
relationships are very heterogeneous (El-Ansary 2005). This chapter intends to
create awareness for the signiﬁcance of different theoretical perspectives in regard
to the topic business relationship.

Initial approaches to business relationship management ﬁrst occurred and were
ﬁrst mentioned in publications in the 1950s, in the course of the development of
earlier forms of key account management. The essential element remains the
strategic and organizational focus of a supplier on individual, important customers
(e.g. on large corporations specializing in consumer goods retail; refer to Sect. 7.1).

M. Kleinaltenkamp (*)
School of Business & Economics, Freie Universita¨t Berlin, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: michael.kleinaltenkamp@fu-berlin.de

W. Plinke
European School of Management & Technology, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: wulff.plinke@esmt.org

A. So¨llner
Faculty of Business Administration & Economics, Euorpa-Universita¨t Viadrina Frankfurt (Oder),
Frankfurt (Oder), Germany
e-mail: soellner@europa-uni.de

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5_2

27

28

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

But the true beginnings of business relationship research can be found in the late
1970s and the 1980s (refer to various assessments of the development: Backhaus
1997; Christopher et al. 2002; Bruhn 2003). Initial studies examining this phenom-
enon were conducted in both industrial marketing (part of what is now referred to as
business-to-business marketing) and in services marketing. These studies naturally
focused on the considerations that tended to deal descriptively with the meaning of
business relationships and with their deﬁnition (Levitt 1985; Diller and Kusterer
1988; Plinke 1989) as well as certain characteristics, e.g. phases of a business
relationship (Jackson 1985a, b; Dwyer et al. 1987; Sethuraman et al. 1988).

Other studies were devoted to special aspects or features of industrial business
relationships, such as the constellation of sales processes in this context (Spekman
and Johnston 1986), just-in-time supply relationships (Frazier et al. 1988; O’Neal
1989) or issues concerning customer evaluation (Turnbull and Wilson 1989).

The work of the IMP group (Industrial Marketing and Purchasing) assumed
great signiﬁcance during this time (Ford 1978, 1980; Halle´n and Wiedersheim-Paul
1979; Hakansson and Wootz 1979; Ha˚kansson 1982). Their work is distinguished
by the fact that they assume a network perspective, meaning that not only the dyadic
relationships between suppler and customer are examined; instead, their analyses
attempt to include the entirety of all direct and indirect delivery and supply
relationships in which a supplier is involved.

While the studies mentioned above concentrated on the relationships existing
between companies, the work performed in the ﬁeld of service marketing focused
more on the relationships of consumers who purchase and use services. Particular
attention was paid to the interaction between customers and employees of a supplier
company that takes place when a service is provided as well as to the effects of such
interaction, e.g. in regard to customer satisfaction, repurchase behavior, etc. (Berry
1983; Gummesson 1987).

The ﬁeld of business relationship management became ﬁrmly established during
the 1990s, with the publication of multiple theoretical-conceptional studies
(e.g. (Heide and John 1992; Mo¨llner and Wilson 1992; Morgan and Hunt 1994;
So¨llner 1999) and of the ﬁrst text books on the subject (e.g. Kleinaltenkamp and
Plinke 1997; Gordon 1999; Peck et al. 1999).

Finally, research on business relationship management received an additional
boost in the ﬁrst decade of this century, with the development and propagation of
customer relationship management (CRM) (e.g. Payne and Frow 2005; Hippner
et al. 2011; refer to Chap. 8). This was due mainly to information technology
systems, which allowed virtually all processes of business relationship management
to be supported and to be more effectively and efﬁciently structured.

These approaches to business relationship management as well as those men-

tioned later in this chapter focused on two central issues:

1. Which factors cause business relationship partners to commit to each other?
2. Which behavioral effects and intentions emanate from the commitment to a

business relationship?

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

29

The answers to these questions and the conclusions drawn from them—particularly
in regard to the constellation of business relationship management—can be very
different, depending on the theoretical focus chosen.

2.2

Behavioral Approaches

Articles related to the behavior science of business relationship research focus
particularly on the effects that occur at the level of single individuals. They deal
with the occurrence of commitments as well as with the resulting effects on
repurchase behavior and certain behavioral intentions of individuals. The funda-
mental pattern of behavioral explanatory approaches is shown in Fig. 2.1. The
illustration indicates that single measures to promote customer loyalty to a supplier
stimulate emotion, motivation and even the attitude of the individual and inﬂuence
the person’s inner psychological processes. The commitment that results is either
strengthened or weakened, depending on whether positive or negative effects are
triggered in these areas. This, in turn, affects the behavioral intentions as well as the
actual behavior of a person in regard to repurchase (intention), cross-buying
(intention) or recommendation (intention).

Concepts that explain individual aspects of the emergence of commitments and
loyalty in this regard are the learning theories, the theory of perceived risk or the
dissonance theory (Homburg and Bruhn 2008):

Stimuli

Measures to promote customer loyalty

Emotions

Motivations

Attitudes

Customer's 
inner 
psychological 
processes

Actual behavior

(cid:129)
Strength: activation
(cid:129) Direction: pleasant 

(cid:129)

vs. unpleasant
Emotion quality: 
e.g. trust

(cid:129) Consciousness

(cid:129) Need for commitment
(cid:129) Need for acceptance
(cid:129) Need for 

hedonism/experiences

(cid:129) …

Intended 
behavior

Behavior

Perceived suitability of 
product/supplier, as a 
factor of
(cid:129)
(cid:129) Conveying of 

Product, service quality

experience

(cid:129) …
(cid:129)
Intention to repurchase
(cid:129) Cross-buying intention
(cid:129) Recommendation 

intention

(cid:129) Repurchase
(cid:129) Cross-buying
(cid:129) Recommendation

Fig. 2.1 Conceptualization of customer loyalty from a behavioral perspective. Source: Based on
Weinberg and Terlutter (2003, p. 49)

30

•

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

If, for example, the theory of learning by reinforcement is applied, beneﬁcial
past behavior is retained, while behavior that was not beneﬁcial is relinquished
or modiﬁed (Wilkie 1994; Engel et al. 1995). A customer’s loyalty to a supplier
always increases when the customer perceives a beneﬁt from the business
relationship or is satisﬁed with the relationship.

• The theory of perceived risk states that people attempt to minimize the risks that
they perceive. Customer loyalty can occur in this sense, too, when customers
adhere to their trusted and familiar purchase decisions and/or suppliers to
minimize the risk of dissatisfaction (Hentschel 1991).

• The dissonance theory is based on the assumption that individuals strive for
long-term equilibrium of their cognitive system (Festinger 1957). Revaluation,
additions or suppression are applied to attempt to abolish dissonance and to once
again achieve inner equilibrium. If this is successful—in this case regarding
purchase decisions made—it can lead to commitment to a supplier. If it is not
successful, the intention to switch becomes stronger, resulting in a business
relationship being terminated or not even entered into in the ﬁrst place.

So the behavioral approaches offer insight that is relevant particularly to
explaining individual behavior of customers in consumer goods markets. These
approaches apply fundamentally to the behavior of persons dealing with (re)pur-
chasing in companies as well. However, taken alone they are surely not signiﬁcant,
because they ignore some essential aspects of organizational purchasing processes.
This particularly includes the effects of the cooperation of multiple persons in a (re)
buying center as well as the fact that procurement decisions are made in an
organizational environment geared towards making a proﬁt (refer to Chap. 3).
This last aspect has been especially relevant, as will be explained in the following
section, to the signiﬁcance that economic approaches based on cost-beneﬁt as well
as value aspects of business relationships have gained.

2.3

Social Psychological Scheme of Explanation: The
Approach of Thibaut and Kelley

The social psychological theory by Thibaut and Kelley is another approach that was
originally developed to explain individual behaviors but was then applied to
organizational business relationships. It was designed to explain the occurrence
of commitments amongst people in social groups. It is based on the theory that all
human relationships are formed by comparing the costs and beneﬁts of a relation-
ship as well as the costs and beneﬁts of other relationships in which they are
involved (Thibaut and Kelley 1959). Although the concept was initially developed
to explain individual human behavior from a non-economical perspective, the fact
that it is based on cost-beneﬁt considerations means that it can easily be applied to
business relationships of companies. When this is done, a partner evaluates the
results of a business relationship (RV) on the basis of two criteria. The ﬁrst is the
comparison level (CL) and is a measure of previous experiences. The experience

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

31

can have been gained from this business relationship or from a different one.
Positive experiences increase the CL, while negative experiences decrease
it. More recent experiences have a stronger effect on the CL than do older
experiences. Situational inﬂuences also carry weight. So the CL is a measure of
the expectations of the customer. The business relationship is perceived as “attrac-
tive” when the difference of costs and beneﬁts of the relationship is greater than the
CL. However, when the attractiveness of a relationship is determined in this way, it
is not sufﬁcient to be able to evaluate whether a partner will remain in a business
relationship or not. This can be accomplished in the theory of Thibaut and Kelley by
applying a second criterion, the Comparison Level for Alternatives (CLALT). This
measure describes the ratio of beneﬁts and costs in the best alternative business
relationship that can possibly be achieved. By applying both CL and CLALT, a
conclusion can be reached on the attractiveness of and dependency in the relation-
ship. There are three different cases (refer to Fig. 2.2):

1. The current relationship is perceived as more attractive than the CL, meaning
that the value RV also exceeds the attractive alternative relationship CLALT.
Because of this alternative, the partner in the business relationship is not
dependent (s/he can switch and is then still above the expectation benchmark).
2. The current relationship value RV is higher than the CL, making the relationship
attractive. However, CLALT is below CL, so the business relationship partner has
no attractive alternative in this case. S/he is dependent.

3. The current value RV of the business relationship is lower than the CL, making
the relationship unattractive. Since CLALT is below the current value, switching
would be detrimental to the business relationship partner, who is already in an
unattractive situation. S/he is dependent in an unattractive relationship.

+

+

+

1. Attractive and 
independent

2. Attractive and 
dependent

3. Unattractive and 
dependent

-

-

-

0

CL CLALT RV

0

CLALT

CL

RV

0

CLALT RV

CL

CL     = Comparison level

CLALT  = Comparison level for alternatives
RV     = Results of a business relationship

Fig. 2.2 Attractiveness of or and dependency in relationships. Source: Based on Herkner (1991,
p. 398)

32

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

A

CLALT (C)

RV(C)

RV(C)

CLALT (S)

K

Legend: Refer to Figure 2.2

Fig. 2.3 Structure of dependency in a business relationship (example)

In the model of Thibaut and Kelley, attractiveness and dependency are the result
of the difference between costs and beneﬁts of an existing relationship, evaluated
on the basis of the expectation benchmark for costs and beneﬁts not speciﬁc to the
relationship as well as on the speciﬁc benchmark of the cost-beneﬁt ratio of a
speciﬁc alternative. This means that, when deﬁning costs and beneﬁts, all of the cost
components of the current business relationship as well as those related to switching
the business relationship partner are considered.

(Un)attractiveness and (in)dependence can now also be used to describe the
position of the two partners to one another, particularly in regard to business
relationship management from the supplier’s point of view (refer to Fig. 2.3).

In this example, the supplier S is in an unattractive business relationship [RV
(S) is less than CL(S)] and dependent as well [CLALT(S) is even less than RV(S)].
Customer C, on the other hand, is in a relationship that is attractive for him [RV
(C) is greater than CL(C)], but is dependent, just like S [CLALT(C) is less than CL
(C)]: One sees a case of mutual dependency with asymmetrical distribution of
attractiveness. These could offer
relationship
management.

starting points

for business

So this model offers fundamental insight into the reasons that persons or
organizations enter into (business) relationships, remain in the relationships or
strive to sever them. Essentially, this model states as the primary driver the costs
and beneﬁts of a relationship and as the fundamental behavior that participants can
choose in this regard the options of switching and remaining in a relationship. The
concepts explained in the following Sect. 2.4 are thus ﬁne-tuning of this basic
model. They concentrate sometimes more on costs, sometimes more on beneﬁts or

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

33

the value of a relationship, or on the behavior or behavioral intentions resulting
from a commitment.

2.4

Economic Indicators: Switching Costs and Relationship
Value

2.4.1 Bonding Effects of Switching Costs

2.4.1.1 Investments Related to Business Relationships
In the deﬁnition of a business relationship, the internal link between transactions
and investments that customers make to establish and maintain a business relation-
ship played a decisive role. This does not necessarily have to be high one-time
expenses at the beginning of a business relationship. Overcoming entry barriers to a
business relationship (offensive as an out-supplier) and defending the position by a
single customer (defense as in-supplier, refer to Chap. 5) are a strain on the supplier
that show up as current expenses in his internal accounting. Irrespective of how they
are treated for accounting purposes, these costs are considered to be an investment.
The supplier takes a long-term view. He sees not only the initial transaction but
also subsequent business that will amortize the expenses invested in the initial
acquisition. Entry costs and costs relating to defending business relationships can
thus be considered investments, their reference object being the relationship to a
speciﬁc customer (Bursk 1979; Kleinaltenkamp and Ehret 2006; Ungruhe 2011).

An investment is the acceptance of a certain disadvantage in the present in
anticipation of an uncertain beneﬁt in the future (Schmidt 1983). This deﬁnition
reveals a perspective adequate to solving the problem. All expenses that a supplier
incurs that are not geared towards order acquisition of a speciﬁc market transaction
but towards securing subsequent transactions to later cover the expenses should be
considered investments. These expenses include accepting unplanned and unse-
cured additional costs (e.g. goodwill services, generous interpretation of contract
ambiguities, favors, seminars for customer’s employees, referrals, etc.) as well as
the continued cost of directly maintaining the relationship (e.g. regular meetings of
top management, trade fair contacts). A particularly important aspect of the invest-
ment is forgoing the complete utilization of pricing policy latitude for every single
transaction, e.g. when a competitor experiences a supply shortage, when a customer
causes his own scheduling bottleneck, etc. In such a situation a customer would
have no choice but to accept the “skimming” of the price leeway, but it is very
likely that the customer would develop a good memory and would attempt to
decrease dependency in the future. So the total marketing effort invested by
suppliers to establish and maintain individual business relationships can be
interpreted as an investment in this sense. Thus marketing in business relationships
is linked to a long-term perspective in which single transactions should always be
seen as a means of generating new transactions with the same customer. The
investing perspective is thus a key feature in differentiating transaction marketing
from relationship marketing (refer to Sect. 5.1.2).

34

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

The fact that both the customer and the supplier can beneﬁt from substantial
investments in a business relationship brings up the issue of the symmetry of the
commitments between supplier and customer. It is deﬁnitely possible that one of the
two sides feels a greater sense of loyalty (meaning greater dependency) that the
other, and there is a risk that the other side could exploit this (So¨llner 1996;
Kleinaltenkamp and Ehret 2006; refer to Sect. 2.2).

Dependency based on investments plays a decisive role in the approaches of
New Institutional Economics. This ﬁeld of research has been met with great interest
since the 1970s, which can be attributed particularly to the early publications of
Oliver E. Williamson (1975, 1985). Williamson, the most prominent proponent of
the transaction costs theory, received the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 2009
for his work in the coordination of transactions. The starting point of his research is
the conviction that the core problem of economics, the organization of the activity
of the economic entity, cannot be sensibly dealt with without examining the
organizational costs (transaction costs). As Williamson sees it, the existence of
business relationships is evidence that this type of coordination reduces transaction
costs.

The question of why economic activities are actually realized by applying a wide
range of coordination forms—besides market transaction and coordination within
the company (hierarchy),
there are many combined forms applied—can be
explained with the transaction costs theory, pointing out differences between the
transactions to be coordinated. For Williamson, the most important element of a
transaction is the speciﬁcity of the related investments. Transactions can then be
differentiated by whether or not they require long-term and speciﬁc commitment of
resources. Williamson argues that it is the speciﬁc investments that can lead an
economic entity to be caught up in a dependency (“lock-in” situation) and that,
when combined with other factors (uncertainty, restricted rationality and opportun-
ism), can cause coordination problems (Williamson 1975).

So dependency in transaction costs theory means remaining dependent on the
inputs required for a transaction. It does not express dependency of an economic
entity on speciﬁc services of a different economic entity. The speciﬁcity of an
investment can be determined rather by looking at the value of the resource in a
capacity other than the intended use, particularly in the best alternative use—in this
case, a business relationship with a different partner. If the value of a resource in its
original capacity is higher than in the best alternative use, the difference in value is
referred to as quasi-rent. It results in a return that the speciﬁc resource can provide
only in its originally intended capacity—in this case, the business relationship with
the respective partner (Fig. 2.4). This applies equally to buyers and suppliers. So
when a purchaser changes suppliers, he should ask himself how the value of a
resource (e.g. a machine, an IT system, employee know-how) would change were
he no longer to buy from the current supplier—the in-supplier. If this difference (the
quasi-rent)
is signiﬁcant, he would be forced to accept great economic
disadvantages were he to switch the supplier, which tends to result in remaining
with the “old” supplier (left side of Fig. 2.4).The cost of switching, gauged as loss of
value of the respective resources, would be too high.

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

35

Value

Value

Quasi-
rent

Value of a 
resource in 
the event of 
repurchase 

from 

in-supplier

Value of a 
resource in 
the event of 
switching to 
out-supplier

Quasi-
rent

Value of a 
resource in 
the event of 
repurchase of 
the respective 

customer

Value of a 
resource in 
the event of 
switching of 
the respective 

customer

Customer perspective

Supplier perspective

Fig. 2.4 Speciﬁcity-related losses when the intended utilization of a resource ceases

The same concept can be applied to a supplier with a customer considering or
threatening to terminate the business relationship or with a customer he no longer
wishes to do business with—for whatever reason. Here, too, the supplier must
compare the value of his resources when the customer repurchases to the value in a
situation in which the customer would have switched or would no longer be
supplied (right side of Fig. 2.4). The greater the potential loss of the respective
resources (machines and equipment, business processes, employee know-how, etc.)
would be, the more likely the supplier is to make concessions for the customer in
question—theoretically, until the quasi rent is exhausted—and the less economic
sense it would make to cease supplying the customer. The cost of switching, caused
by the loss of the customer and the associated loss of value of the company’s own
resources, would be too high.

So the existence of high and speciﬁc investments justiﬁes a commitment in two
ways. On the one hand, the resource speciﬁcity forces the investor to realize the
planned transaction(s) so that the investment can be amortized. On the other hand,
the speciﬁcity substantiates a dependency based on the “good will” of the transac-
tion partner: The partner could be tempted to dispute the quasi rent with the
committed business partner by insisting on new negotiations (Butler and Baysinger
1983). It is precisely this good will on the part of an actual or potential business
partner that Williamson rules out by assuming that humans are by nature opportu-
nistic (using their own cunning and wits).

Differential analysis of speciﬁc investments is made easier with Williamson’s
differentiation between four types of speciﬁcity (Williamson 1985). The list is not
necessary complete and has been amended by Williamson himself (Williamson
1986). It also offers an initial analysis matrix to compile appropriated speciﬁc
investments, which are a particularly inﬂuential factor in the economic approach
to explaining loyalty.

• Site speciﬁcity means that the customer and the supplier made agreements tied
to speciﬁc places and later relocation would be very costly or impossible. This

36

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

type of speciﬁcity can occur when e.g. a steel manufacturer builds a plant near
the ore supplier or when a supplier to the automotive industry relocates to a new
facility of the customer in a foreign country. Dependency results from the
customer having no other transaction partners in this location.

• Physical asset speciﬁcity means that a customer adapts interfaces to the sup-
plier, e.g. by acquiring certain equipment or implementing certain processes.
Speciﬁc material goods can include communication equipment to link the
supplier and purchaser, transport and storage facilities used by both parties, etc.
• Dedicated assets are the result of a company structuring its capacity exclusively
for the cooperation with a certain market partner. Capacities are created in
anticipation of a certain transaction volume. Were the transaction volume do
not occur, there would be no other suitable use, even if the technical properties
are unspeciﬁc.

• Human asset speciﬁcity means that knowledge related to the business relation-
ship exists or is acquired. Human capital that is lost outside of the business
relationship can be acquired e.g. through targeted training. It can just as well
have resulted from earlier transaction and experiences with the partner—more or
less as a by-product.

The phenomenon of speciﬁcity in combination with the problem of opportunism
is thus essentially responsible for the safeguarding of resources having become such
an important management task for many transactions. Since protecting from the risk
of speciﬁcity on the market would lead to such high transaction costs, the transac-
tion costs theory’s standard solution to this problem is vertical integration. Integra-
tion of speciﬁc transactions is intended to utilize the controlling beneﬁts of the
“hierarchy” and thus to minimize transaction costs.

However, from the customer’s and supplier’s perspective, the vertical integra-
tion suggested by Williamson is generally not a viable option. It was particularly
Picot (1991) who pointed out that barriers to integration can result primarily from
ﬁnancial restrictions and from a lack of know-how. The desire to stick to one’s own
core competencies can also be arguments against integration. And ﬁnally, such a
step would mean that, in the case of downstream integration of a supplier, a
company would become a competitor to its own customers; and were upstream
integration of a customer to occur, the company would become a competitor to its
own suppliers. In both cases this can generally lead to signiﬁcant disadvantages. In
light of this, close cooperation amongst business partners is a realistic alternative
for cooperation as compared to the hierarchy option, especially—as Stinchcombe
(1985) pointed out—taking into consideration the fact that many of the beneﬁts of a
hierarchy can also be achieved in close business relationships. However, it should
be kept in mind that entering into a business relationship with the intention of
protecting the required speciﬁc investments usually leads to additional speciﬁc
investments being needed to establish the business relationship. The role that
investments play in business relationships has already been emphasized in earlier
publications on this topic (Johanson and Mattsson 1985; Plinke 1989). Speciﬁc
investments have been cited as a central aspect of business relationships in many

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

37

other articles as well (Halle´n et al. 1991; Heide 1994; Plinke 1997; Plinke and
So¨llner 1997; So¨llner 1999). In this respect one can agree with Sheth and Parvatiyar
(1994) when they emphasize that speciﬁcity is deﬁnitely not only a condition for
entering into business relationships but is also the result of the decision to choose a
close business relationship. Speciﬁc investments have far-reaching consequences
for the relationship between suppliers and purchasers by sustainably affecting their
negotiating situation.

Economists from the most varied schools of thought all acknowledge the
signiﬁcance of negotiating situations in which transactions are brokered. The
number of potential suppliers and purchasers plays a decisive role in this aspect.
If a customer has several potential suppliers to choose from, we refer to this as a
situation of supplier competition. If there is only one supplier, a monopoly exists.
The negotiations between the monopolist and the purchaser will differ vastly from
the negotiations in the case of supplier competition.

By taking the speciﬁcity into consideration, Williamson succeeds

in
demonstrating that a situation of supplier competition does not necessarily have
to remain in place. From the customer’s perspective, the competitive situation upon
conclusion of the contract can by all means change from a situation of complete
supplier competition to a unilateral or bilateral monopoly. Whether or not the
competitive situation changes in this way depends completely on the scope and
speciﬁcity of the resource allocation resulting from conditions of the contract. If
neither of the two parties makes investments, the next round of negotiations also
takes place under the same conditions of supplier competition. If, on the other hand,
the competitive situation is “fundamentally
speciﬁc investments are made,
transformed” (Williamson 1985, p. 61). As soon as the customer has made speciﬁc
investments, competitors that were not included in the ﬁrst round of negotiations
are at a disadvantage in the second round compared to suppliers who were success-
ful in the previous round. When the customer makes such speciﬁc investments that
bind him to a certain supplier, barriers are erected for potential competitors,
protecting the established business relationship.

Supplier investments can also effect a fundamental transformation. In many
cases, the supplier in a business relationship will be forced to make investments that
are sunk costs for him. Investments made by the supplier can also transform the
market situation to a bilateral monopoly. On the one hand, supplier investments
made under the assumption of an imperfect market are relevant, because new
investment projects cannot always simply be ﬁnanced. On the other hand, the
calculation basis for the in-supplier’s pricing is completely changed by the speciﬁc
investments. While the resources to be expended are still completely disposable to
the out-supplier and thus represent relevant costs to be covered, the resources
already disposed of are sunk costs for the in-supplier because the investments are
irreversible. The in-supplier company may possibly consider this in its pricing and
remain below his full costs in the competitive situation. This situation alone can
discourage potential out-suppliers from an offer and stabilize the monopoly
situation.

38

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

When a customer invests in a business relationship, the investments—if they are
speciﬁc—are irreversible. They substantiate switching costs and bind the customer
to the successful supplier. While the supplier frequently achieves the essential
marketing objective of customer loyalty (Diller 1996), the customer may experi-
ence stability and security and thus the transaction cost efﬁciency essential to
performance of certain transactions. However, the price of this is forfeiting the
corrective inﬂuence of competition and the acceptance of problems common to
monopolies or bilateral monopolies. The loss of resources in the event of termina-
tion of a business relationship shifts the relationship of the customer to potential
suppliers, and it changes the bilateral negotiating position towards the current
business partner. This is due to the lack of replaceability of the successful supplier.

2.4.1.2 Direct Switching Costs
In addition to the costs that a business relationship partner incurs for loss in value of
the invested resources, a supplier or a buyer switch can be prevented or hindered by
the fact that its initiation and execution are difﬁcult and costly. These direct
switching costs include all “anticipated, directly attributable costs to terminate
the old and begin the new business relationship” (Saab 2007, p. 122); based on
(Adler 2003, p. 115). This includes not only monetary values but all other
expenditures—such as time and effort—incurred from (potentially) switching as
well. These cost components include expenditures (Saab 2007) for

• The termination of the existing relationship (take down costs), contract penalties

•

or the time required for termination,
the search for an alternative relationship (search costs), e.g. to collect and
prepare information on suitable contract partners and

• establishing such an alternative relationship (setup costs), e.g. negotiations,
introduction of new procedures,

coordination of organizational processes,
investments in equipment, training employees.

It follows that the costs mentioned here depend strongly on the level of knowl-
edge of the participants on the existing and any potential alternative business
relationships. The trust in an existing business partner as well as the satisfaction
in regard to the partner are signiﬁcant factors (Ku¨hne 2008). If, for example, the
trust in a current partner is high, the transaction costs for the initiation and execution
of subsequent transactions are—sometimes drastically—reduced (Plo¨tner 1995).
One feels that the in-supplier can be trusted and that less activity is requires to ﬁnd
information and to safeguard against later disadvantages. When little or nothing is
known about an out-supplier, the exact opposite is the case, with the consequence
that high direct switching costs are (or can be) incurred for a potential switch. It
would be necessary to compile information on the quality of the goods and services
supplied by the company in question, to check the creditworthiness and reliability
of the potential partner, etc. And one would probably also have to expend consid-
erable effort in drawing up contracts that protect against any opportunistic behavior
on the part of the new partner. This last case clearly indicates that, by remaining in

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

39

the “old” business relationship with the in-supplier—sometimes substantial—direct
switching costs can be avoided.

The same concept applies to the satisfaction felt in regard to a business partner.
Satisfaction means “knowing what you have.” To ﬁnd out whether the satisfaction
would be comparable with a potential new partner, effort would have to be invested
in seeking information such as references. Such efforts are also a source of direct
switching costs and can make switching less likely or even prevent it.

The amount of the direct switching costs in a speciﬁc case is to a great extent a
factor of the number and strength of other relationships in which the supplier and
purchaser are participants. As previously mentioned (refer to Sect. 1.1), companies
in business-to-business markets are generally involved in a greater number of
parallel business relationships. Switching to a customer or supplier within such a
group generally incurs fewer direct switching costs than establishing contact to a
completely new business partner. In such a case switching in its own sense is not
even necessary: One’s own situation can be improved by restructuring the procure-
ment and/or customer portfolio. For example, a customer can put pressure on a
supplier by reducing the delivery rate (share of wallet) or by temporarily not
considering the supplier for deliveries (Janker 2004), because he will incur only
minimal termination, search and/or setup costs, if at all (Saab 2007). This does not,
however, affect the signiﬁcance of direct switching costs as a loyalty factor. The
amount of the costs is also a signiﬁcant factor in the cases described above. The
more alternatives a company has in its customer and supplier base, the lower are the
switching costs, the less it is committed to a single partner with which it is in a
business relationship and the greater is the probability that it could switch (Saab
2007).

2.4.2 Loyalty Effects of the Value of a Business Relationship

Concentrating transaction cost economics on transaction cost efﬁciency while
strictly applying the concept of opportunism is, however, restrictive when
attempting to analyze actual management situations. This was ﬁrst explicitly
expressed by Zajac and Olsen in 1993, when as part of their “Transactional Value
Analysis” they argued that interorganizational business relationships are entered
into primarily to achieve mutual beneﬁts. Their ﬁndings indicate that business
partners come to agreements that do not necessarily minimize transaction costs
when the resulting cost disadvantages are at least balanced by the additional values
created by the relationship (Zajac and Olsen 1993; Madhok 2000).

The signiﬁcance of the business relationship value is also apparent in a series of
studies that conﬁrm that the value that the business relationship partners place on
the relationship (relationship value) has become an essential if not the decisive
factor for the initiation and success of business relationships as well as for the
behavior of the partners in the business relationships (Krapfel et al. 1991; Anderson
1995; Wilson 1995; Wilson and Jantrania 1994; Tunder 2000; Cannon and Hom-
burg 2001; Hogan and Armstrong 2001; Adler 2003; Walter et al. 2003). Wilson

40

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

Table 2.1 Dimensions of the business relationship value. Source: Based on Ulaga and Eggert
(2006)

Sources of value creation

Core offering

Sourcing process

Customer
operations

Value dimensions

Relationship beneﬁts

Product quality
Delivery
performance
Service support
Personal interaction
Supplier know-how
Time-to-market

Relationship
costs

Direct costs

Acquisition costs

Operation costs

(2003, p. 176) expressed this clearly: “Product value is not enough to win in the
marketplace. Relationship value creation is critical to winning in the marketplace”.
In this realm the relationship value model created by Ulaga and Eggert (2006)
has attracted considerable attention. On the basis of theoretical preliminary
considerations and a series of in-depth interviews, they identiﬁed six values per-
ceived by customers in business relationships. Three of these values include cost
aspects and three beneﬁt aspects. They are each based on the actual core offering,
the sourcing (procurement) process and the customer operations in which the
products and services purchased from the supplier are used (refer to Table 2.1
and to Sect. 5.3.1).

Empirical examination of the model revealed that, in regard to assessing the
value of a business relationship, the perceived beneﬁts play a greater role that the
perceived cost
the individual
dimensions, the study showed that the greatest value was placed on gains in beneﬁts
in the operations and sourcing areas as well as on production cost reductions (Ulaga
and Eggert 2006).

In regard to the signiﬁcance of

reductions.

The signiﬁcance of the business relationship value is also apparent in the results
of a more recent study geared towards the international marketplace. The analysis
of a large number of cases in Argentina, Germany, New Zealand and South Korea
indicated that, on both the supplier and purchaser sides, the business relationship
value sometimes had a much stronger inﬂuence on the intended behavior of the
partners involved than did the switching costs (Geiger et al. 2012).

2.4.3 Commitment in Business Relationships: Interaction
of Business Relationship Value and Switching Costs

The previous section clearly indicates that cost as well as beneﬁt or value aspects
are the foundation of the loyalty of a business relationship partner. So it seemed and
seems reasonable—as the Thibaut and Kelly model did—to combine the two
approaches to be able to fully comprehend how commitments in business
relationships come about.

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

41

These considerations can be plausibly phrased by saying that ultimately there
are—“only”—two reasons why people remain in relationships: either because they
want to or because they have to (Johnson 1982); quoted according to (So¨llner
1993). The aspect of having to stay in the relationship stands for the switching
costs, while wanting to represents the beneﬁts gained from the relationship. This
concept has been revived again and again for business relationship research and to
explain commitments in this context (So¨llner 1993; Plinke 1997; Bendapudi and
Berry 1997; Gilliland and Bello 2002; Gounaris 2005; Liu 2006; De Ruyter
et al. 2001; Saab 2007).

An initial approach that applies and pursues these thoughts is So¨llner’s commit-
ment model (1993). This model sees commitment as the perceived loyalty to one
economic entity as opposed to another. An extension to this line of reasoning on the
transaction costs theory is that the commitment is no longer attributed solely to the
scope of speciﬁc investments. The extension includes the addition of the speciﬁc
contribution to the relationship as an input category and—as previously men-
tioned (refer to Sect. 2.4)—the success of the relationship and the relationship
equity as two output dimensions that also inﬂuence the customer’s perceived
loyalty (refer to Fig. 2.5). Direct switching costs, on the other hand, are not
considered.

Speciﬁc contributions include e.g. loyalty to the business partner and motivation
to achieve the same objectives (Allen and Meyer 1990; Gundlach et al. 1995). It can
evolve over the course of a business relationship with no planning whatsoever. And
it can also be consciously created, e.g. by supporting interorganizational
relationships with planned interpersonal relationships. The commitment dimension
is a signiﬁcant modiﬁcation in relation to transaction cost economics. All conceiv-
able components of the commitment dimension are fundamentally suitable for
reducing the tendency of the involved parties to be opportunistic. However, when

Commitment of supplier

Commitment of customer

2

3

Appropriated 

specific 

investments

Specific 

contribution to 

relationship

1

6

Relationship 

success

Relationship 

success

Relationship 

equity

Relationship 

equity

Appropriated 

specific 

investments

4

Specific 

contribution to 

relationship

5

Fig. 2.5 Commitment in a business relationship (dyadic view). Source: Based on So¨llner (1999)

42

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

this is acknowledged, opportunism is no longer about a given property; it is a
variable that, depending on the speciﬁc application in the relationship, can manifest
itself to varying degrees in the relationship.

The relationship equity reﬂects the question of how the success of the relation-
ship is divided between the partners. A measure for the relationship equity can be
the perceived comparability of the respective input-output ratio of the two partners.
Particularly when it is examined dynamically, the perceived equity in a business
relationship will have a strong impact on the further course of the relationship.
Some authors now expand the contemplation to include the generally perceived
quality of the relationship (Mysen and Svensson 2010).

While So¨llner’s model focuses primarily on the economic factors leading to a
commitment, Morgan and Hunt examine certain intended behaviors that can result
from varying degrees of commitment in their commitment-trust model (refer to
Fig. 2.6).

These factors include the willingness of a business relationship partner to meet
the wishes or requirements of the other side (acquiescence), to terminate the
relationship (propensity to leave) or to show a willingness to cooperate (coopera-
tion). When determining the degree of commitment, not only the beneﬁts of the
business relationship (relationship beneﬁts are examined, but also the anticipated

Precursors

Key Mediating Variables

Outcomes

Relationship 

termination costs

Relationship 

benefits

Shared 
values

Communication

Opportunistic 

behavior

+

+

+

+

+

-

Relationship 
commitment

+

Trust

+

-

+

+

+

-

Acquiescence

Propensity to 

leave

Cooperation

Functional 

conflict

Uncertainty

Legend: 
A "+" stands for a positive correlation, a "-" for a negative correlation between the respective variables. Sample reading: The 
higher the "relationship benefits," the higher is the "relationship commitment."

Fig. 2.6 Commitment-trust model. Source: Based on Morgan and Hunt (1994, p. 22)

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

43

cost of ending the relationship (relationship termination costs which also represent
a portion of the direct switching costs. Values from which both partners in a
business relationship beneﬁt (shared values) are also seen as factors that impact
commitment. In the model the commitment is seen as a value that provides a
mediating inﬂuence between the initial and inﬂuencing factors (precursors) and
the results of the business relationship (outcomes). The commitment itself is a
dependent—in this case on stated inﬂuencing factors—variable that intervenes in
the effect of the ultimately dependent variable—in this case the intended behavior.
Trust is also seen as a mediator effect in this model. It is also inﬂuenced by the
shared values as well as by the way in which the partners have communicated with
one another in the past (communication) and by the opportunistic behavior of the
other side—or by the lack thereof. The degree of trust has an effect on the tendency
to cooperate as well as on the extent to which conﬂicts can productively be used to
successfully continue the business relationship ( functional conﬂict). As the only
factor that does not represent intended behavior, the authors see trust as inﬂuencing
the uncertainty that a business relationship partner feels in regard to the integrity of
his counterpart. And trust also has an impact on the commitment itself.

The model has attracted a wealth of attention in relevant literature and has
become one of the most frequently quoted approaches. A point that warrants
criticism is that the termination costs only factor in some of the switching costs.
Neither the expenses incurred as direct costs for searching for an alternative
relationship (search costs) and for establishing the relationship (setup costs) are
not considered explicitly, nor are the sunk costs attributable to speciﬁc investments
(refer to Sect. 2.4.1). They ﬂow into the approach only indirectly and in different
ways as mediating values through trust:

• Deep trust in an existing business relationship partner increases the “search
costs” as well as the “setup costs” related to an alternative business relationship.
This indicates that trust is a factor that impacts the amount of the direct switching
costs.

• Opportunistic behavior poses a risk particularly with high speciﬁc investments.
In this sense, non-opportunistic behavior that does not threaten the quasi-rent
leads to low sunk costs and it increases trust in the business relationship partner.
So trust is a value that is determined by the type of switching costs, the sunk
costs.

Saab’s model (2007) is an approach that avoids the problem mentioned above
and in which the inﬂuencing factors of the commitment are attributed to solely
economic considerations, and it also takes into account the essential behavioral
intentions. Based on thoughts of transaction cost as well as transaction beneﬁt
theory—and in accordance with the concepts explained previously—he sees a
commitment as the result of the combination of relationship value and switching
costs, whereby the latter is in turn composed of direct switching costs and sunk
costs (refer to Fig. 2.7). As already explained, the sunk costs can be the result of

44

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

Commitment

Relationship value

Switching costs

Direct switching 

costs

Sunk costs

Fig. 2.7 Model of commitment in business relationships. Source: Based on Saab (2007)

Customer loyalty

Loyalty (+)

Obligation (-)

Fig. 2.8 Customer loyalty from the customer’s perspective. Source: Based on Eggert (1999)

resources speciﬁc to the business relationship losing value from switching, meaning
that the quasi-rent is at risk.

To determine the relevance of the model—previously tested successfully in the
business-to-business ﬁeld—to business relationship management, in his study the
author also examined the intended behavior of the three commitment drivers—
business relationship value, direct switching costs and sunk costs—that emanate
from the supplier and the purchaser. He based his studies on ﬁndings including
those by Eggert from a study in 1999—which was performed on consumer goods,
however. This study also initially revealed that customer loyalty was determined
ultimately by the factors “wanting to” and “having to.” A state in which for one
customer the “wanting to” dominates is referred to by Eggert as—positively
perceived—“loyalty,” while a state in which “having to” dominates is—negatively
perceived—“lock-in” or obligation (refer to Fig. 2.8). What is interesting here is
that customers feeling loyalty towards the supplier demonstrate more positive
intended behavior that those that feel obligation. This is apparent in their lesser
intention to switch, their greater willingness to express a recommendation and their
greater willingness to intensify the business relationship, all while only minimally
seeking alternative suppliers.

Saab’s study reaches very similar conclusions (refer to Fig. 2.9): The higher the
relationship value, direct switching costs and sunk costs are, the lower is the
switching probability and the higher are the willingness to intensify the relationship
and the relationship tolerance, meaning the inclination of a partner to be willing to
accept a mistake made by the other side. The greater the relationship value, the less

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

45

Effects

Switching 
probability

Willingness 
to intensify

Relationship 

tolerance

Search for alternatives

Search for other 

alternatives

Search for 
additional 
partners

Relationship value

Direct switching 

costs    

Sunk costs

-

-

-

+

+

n.s

+

+

+

-

-

n.s

-

n.s

+

s
n
o
i
s
n
e
m
d

i

 

y
t
l
a
y
o
L

+  Positive correlation     - Negative correlation     n.s. Correlation not significant

Fig. 2.9 Effects of commitment dimensions on intended behavior. Source: Based on Saab (2007)

frequently a partner seeks alternatives or additional partners. This also applies to
direct switching costs in regard to searching for alternatives. The higher the sunk
costs, the more intensively additional partners are sought to reduce the dependency
created by the speciﬁc investments. The previously mentioned international study
indicated a similar tendency; however, it identiﬁed differences between the respec-
tive intentions of the suppler and buyer (Geiger et al. 2012). Another interesting
revelation was that buyers and suppliers have different reasons for accepting
commitments. The supplier weighs the disadvantages of dependency against the
potential cost of acquiring new customers. The higher the latter are, the more likely
the supplier is to commit to new purchasers or to the existing customer base.
Buyers, on the other hand, see the loss of procurement freedom as a necessary
condition to reducing costs incurred to maintain and manage a wide supplier base.
To summarize: The commitment or loyalty that a business relationship partner
feels to another party is essentially inﬂuenced by two factors: the value of the
business relationship (a positive factor) and the switching costs (a negative factor).
The latter can be divided into direct switching costs attributed directly to a (possi-
ble) switch and costs that could be incurred due to a (looming) loss in value of own
resources were a switch to occur (sunk costs). Depending on their manifestation, the
loyalty drivers can signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the behavior or intended behavior of the
participants involved.

the same time,

This does not provide a patented explanation for the establishment and duration
of business relationships. At
these considerations show the
approaches for successful business relationship management. They logically con-
sist of increasing the value of the relationships for the respective partner and/or
increasing the switching costs that he would incur. This can happen by the customer
being “tempted” or deeming it sensible to invest speciﬁcally in the business
relationship, resulting in the incurrence of sunk costs. Also, an attempt can be
made to increase the direct switching costs by making it more difﬁcult to compare
alternative business partners to one another. These fundamental constellations of

46

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

business relationship management are examined extensively in Chap. 5 of this
book, from the in-supplier’s as well as the out-supplier’s point of view.

In addition to the two drivers of commitment, there are additional characteristics
that can be characterized by a business relationship and must thus be considered for
the analysis as well as for the constellation of business relationship management.
We will examine these characteristics in the following chapters.

2.5

Other Economic Attributes of Business Relationships

2.5.1 Structural Attributes of a Business Relationship

Whenever commitments make suppliers or buyers feel dependent on their business
partners, their inclination to seek or turn to alternatives increases. But whether or
not a partner perceives the dependency resulting from the business relationship as
disruptive depends not only on the value of the relationship and the switching costs
but also on the structure of the commitment (Gundlach et al. 1995), meaning the
question of whether the commitments are balanced or asymmetrical or whether they
are perceived as such. It is safe to assume that a customer considers a potential
dependency on the supplier to be much less disruptive when the supplier is similarly
dependent on the business relationship.

When examining business relationships, it quickly becomes apparent that the
construct commitment facilitates a wealth of structures. Even when only the
appropriated speciﬁc investments and their simpliﬁed characterizations as “high”
and “low” are examined, four cases can easily be differentiated (Table 2.2).

Cases 1 and 4 represent symmetrical input structures. In case 1, both parties have
made high and speciﬁc investments. In contrast, in case 4 both parties have made
only minimal speciﬁc investments. Cases 2 and 3 represent asymmetrical input
structures in which either only the customer or only the supplier has made high
speciﬁc investments.

The number of cases of different business relationship structures can be greatly
increased by taking into consideration the structure of the other commitment
dimensions or by using a ﬁner scale to measure the commitment dimensions.
Without getting into all of the possible constellations of business relationships, a
few fundamental
thoughts on the relevance of the structure of dependency
relationships should be mentioned here:

Table 2.2 Structure of appropriated specific investments. Source: Based on So¨llner (1999)

Appropriated speciﬁc investments by the supplier High
Low

1
3

2
4

Appropriated speciﬁc
investments by the customer
High

Low

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

47

• Besides the determinants of a company’s dependency in a business relationship,
the structural features of the business relationship should also be recognized
when attempting to determine whether or not a customer perceives the depen-
dency resulting from a business relationship as negative. Quite a few authors
have emphasized the problems of one-sided investments
in business
relationships (Berry and Parasuraman 1991; Anderson and Weitz 1992; Morgan
and Hunt 1994; Gundlach et al. 1995; Plinke and So¨llner 1997; Kleinaltenkamp
and Ku¨hne 2002).

• Dependency that results from a certain commitment dimension—e.g. from
speciﬁc investments—can be acceptable to a company when it is symmetrical
dependency. Speciﬁc investments pose a lesser threat potential when both
partners have made a commitment by making speciﬁc investments. Williamson
(1985) refers to the necessity of exchanging hostages in this context. The same
applies to output-related dependency. A customer who receives a unique service
from his supplier will feel less threatened by this dependency when the supplier
in the business relationship also experiences success that would not be as easily
achievable in other business relationships.

• A symmetrical relationship structure will be the exception in most cases
(Gummesson 1994). However, in these cases a dependency in one commitment
dimension may be able to be compensated for by a partner’s dependency in
another commitment dimension. Heide and John (1988) talk about the opportu-
nity to balance out speciﬁc investments in a business relationship by “offsetting
investments” to establish good relationships with other members in the chain of
purchasers.

• Dependency (based on investment or value) is acceptable to a company when in
the business relationship standards of solidarity and justice are recognized as
institutional guidelines by the independent company as well (Heide and John
1992; Kaufmann and Stern 1988; So¨llner 1999). So the threat perceived by the
customer is reduced by the supplier’s speciﬁc stake in the relationship.

2.5.2 Process Attributes of a Business Relationship

By deﬁnition, business relationships are characterized by a certain stability. This
does not, however, mean that the time sequence cannot be changed. And although
the commitment dimensions described here are independent of one another, they
are distinguished by different interactions. And the customer’s behavior affects the
supplier’s commitment and vice versa. So, for example, speciﬁc investments made
by the customer impact not only the customer’s success in the relationship but that
of the supplier as well: They increase the customer’s switching costs. They stabilize
the relationship and reduce the insecurity of the supplier (Ungruhe 2011). Con-
versely, a high speciﬁc investment in the relationship by the supplier can e.g. be a
sign of a slight risk of opportunism on the part of the purchaser. And ﬁnally,
perceived relationship equity will impact the future investments and the future
contribution to the relationship of the parties involved.

48

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

The decisive factors in this view are the dynamic aspect and the possibility of a
step-by-step establishment of commitment. The prerequisite for closely binding the
customer may be for the supplier to also make a commitment. Since this process can
occur in steps and reciprocally, a strong commitment can be established without a
company being bound asymmetrically to a high degree at a certain time.

It is not necessary and probably also not possible that both parties are equally
committed. The intention is rather to signal to the partner interest in the relationship
by committing oneself. This creates the conditions under which the partner is
willing to commit to a relationship or the committed partner does not attempt to
reduce his dependency (So¨llner 1993).

Examination of the process aspects of business relationships has led to the
development of different phase models of business relationships, which will be
taken up in Chap. 3 to analyze repurchase decisions and in Chap. 5 to develop
strategies for business relationship management.

So converting from market coordination to relational coordination leads to
activities that can be far-reaching. These activities are primarily geared towards
obtaining the knowledge required to coordinate a transaction through a governance
structure and to creating the organizational requirements for execution of relational
exchange conditions. Particularly Walter (1998) describes how the required steps
can become barriers in the evolution process. It should be noted that the organiza-
tional and individual requirements for the implementation of business relationship
management vary from company to company (refer to Part III of this book). So
converting to relational exchange relationships poses problems of varying degrees
for the people in different companies.

Exercises

Case Study

Many automobile producers have moved their manufacturing facilities to foreign
countries to save costs. According to a report in the German magazine ADAC
Motorwelt, the Audi TT is made in Hungary, the Opel Astra in Belgium, England
and Poland, the Porsche Boxster in Finland and the VW Polo in Spain and Slovakia.
And manufacturers are also increasingly purchasing parts and components in
foreign countries as the vertical range of manufacture decreases. The proportion
of vehicle parts produced in Germany has fallen from 35 % in 1991 to 25 % in 2001.
Parts and components are often procured from suppliers all around the world.

The Opel Vectra is a good example of this development. It is produced at the
Ru¨sselsheim plant, opened in 2002. Figure 2.10 clearly demonstrates that the
Vectra is a real “European,” with components from many different places.

The establishment of international business relationships and networks has
brought Opel great potential advantages (refer to Chap. 1). But a cooperative
relationship between a manufacturer like Opel and a potential supplier is deﬁnitely
not easy. It is plagued by uncertainties. Manufacturers and suppliers negotiate early,

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

49

Fig. 2.10 The Opel Vectra and the origin of essential components. Source: Based on ADAC
Motorwelt, 2/2007, p. 46f

meaning they discuss a service that is not yet in existence. Many issues cannot be
deﬁnitely resolved: Does the supplier properly meet the expectations and what will
be the actual cost-beneﬁt ratio? Which roles do trade unions and strikes in the
supplier’s country play? If a bottleneck occurs, might a supplier in a foreign country
give preference to customers in his home country?

The transaction is fraught with uncertainties for the supplier as well. The
exclusive cooperation with the German manufacturer appears to be worthwhile at
ﬁrst glance. But how will the cooperation be over the long term? Will the forecast
quantities be achieved, amortizing the required investments and producing proﬁts?
Will the manufacturer remain as cooperative as implied in initial discussions? Or is
there a risk of an “extended workbench” occurring and having to accept prices that
barely cover costs?

Discuss the risks that the potential beneﬁts of the business relationship could
endanger from the perspective of the manufacturer and his suppliers. Then consider
how to manage the risk involved in business relationships.

50

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

Additional Exercises

1. Explain the fundamental pattern of customer loyalty from a behavioral perspec-
tive. Which concepts are you familiar with within this perspective that explain
the origin of customer loyalty, and are these concepts sufﬁcient to thoroughly
explain the (re)purchasing behavior of companies?

2. Explain the social psychological approach of Thibaut and Kelley in light of the

origin of organizational business relationships.

3. What is the main feature that differentiates transaction marketing from relation-
ship marketing? What are the consequences for the commitment between the
customer and the in-supplier?

4. Which different types of speciﬁcity do you know about?
5. Explain the components of switching costs that a purchaser incurs when chang-

ing the in-supplier.

6. What signiﬁcance does the value of a business relationship hold for the loyalty

between customer and in-supplier?

7. State and explain the commitment drivers in business relationships.
8. Differentiate the essential tasks of managing a business relationship in light of
the individual replacement phases from the tasks of managing a market
transaction.

References

Adler, J. (2003). Anbieter- und Vertragstypenwechsel—eine nachfrageorientierte Analyse auf der

Basis der Neuen Institutioneno¨konomik. Wiesbaden: Gabler Verlag.

Allen, N. J., & Meyer, J. P. (1990). The measurement and antecedents of affective, continuance
and normative commitment to the organization. Journal of Occupational Psychology, 63(1),
1–18. doi:10.1111/j.2044-8325.1990.tb00506.x.

Anderson, E., & Weitz, B. (1992). The use of pledges to build and sustain commitment in

distribution channels. Journal of Marketing Research (JMR), 29(1), 18–34.

Anderson, J. C. (1995). Relationships in business markets: Exchange episodes, value creation, and

their empirical assessment. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 23(4), 346–350.

Backhaus, K. (1997). Entwicklungspfade im Investitionsgu¨termarketing.

In K. Backhaus,
B. Gu¨nter, M. Kleinaltenkamp, W. Plinke, & H. Raffe´e (Eds.), Marktleistung und Wettbewerb
(pp. 33–62). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Bendapudi, N., & Berry, L. L. (1997). Customers’ Motivations for Maintaining Relationships
With Service Providers. Journal of Retailing, 73(1), 15–37. doi:10.1016/S0022-4359(97)
90013-0.

Berry, L. L. (1983). Relationship marketing. In L. L. Berry, G. L. Shostak, & G. D. Upah (Eds.),

Emerging perspectives on service marketing. Chicago: American Marketing Association.

Berry, L. L., & Parasuraman, P. A. (1991). Marketing services—Competing trough quality.

New York: Free Press.

Bruhn, M. (2003). Relationship marketing. Management of customer relationships: Financial

Times Prent. Int.

Bursk, E. C. (1979). View your customers as investments. In E. C. Bursk & G. S. Hutchinson
(Eds.), Salesmanship and sales force management (pp. 160–163). Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

51

Butler, H. N., & Baysinger, B. D. (1983). Vertical restraints of trade as contractual integration—A
synthesis of relational contracting theory, transaction-cost economics, and organization theory.
Emory Law Journal, 32, 1009–1109.

Cannon, J. P., & Homburg, C. (2001). Buyer-supplier relationships and customer ﬁrm costs.

Journal of Marketing, 65(1), 29–43. doi:10.1509/jmkg.65.1.29.18136.

Christopher, M. G., Payne, A. F. T., & Ballantyne, D. F. (2002). Relationship marketing: Creating

shareholder value. Oxford: Butterworth-Heinemann.

De Ruyter, K., Moorman, L., & Lemmink, J. (2001). Antecedents of commitment and trust in
customer: Supplier relationships in high technology markets. Industrial Marketing Manage-
ment, 30(3), 271–286. doi:10.1016/S0019-8501(99)00091-7.

Diller, H. (1996). Kundenbindung als Marketingziel. Marketing—Zeitschrift f€ur Forschung und

Praxis, 18(2), 81–94.

Diller, H., & Kusterer, M. (1988). Beziehungsmanagement: Theoretische Grundlagen und explor-

ative Befunde. Marketing—Zeitschrift f€ur Forschung und Praxis, 10(3), 211–220.

Dwyer, F. R., Schurr, P. H., & Oh, S. (1987). Developing buyer-seller relationships. Journal of

Marketing, 51(2), 11–27. doi:10.2307/1251126.

Eggert, A. (1999). Kundenbindung aus Kundensicht—Konzeptualisierung, Operationalisierung,

El-Ansary, A. I. (2005). Relationship marketing management. Journal of Relationship Marketing,

Verhaltenswirksamkeit. Wiesbaden: DUV.

4(1–2), 43–56. doi:10.1300/J366v04n01_04.

Engel, J. F., Blackwell, R. D., & Miniard, P. W. (1995). Consumer behavior (8th ed.). Fort Worth,

TX: The Dryden Press.

Festinger, L. (1957). A theory of cognitive dissonance. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Ford, I. D. (1978). Stability factors in industrial marketing channels. Industrial Marketing Man-

agement, 7(6), 410–422. doi:10.1016/0019-8501(78)90020-2.

Ford, I. D. (1980). The development of buyer-seller relationships in industrial markets. European

Journal of Marketing, 14(5/6), 339–353. doi:10.1108/EUM0000000004910.

Frazier, G. L., Spekman, R. E., & O’Neal, C. R. (1988). Just-in-time exchange relationships in

industrial markets. Journal of Marketing, 52(4), 52–67. doi:10.2307/1251633.

Geiger, I., Durand, A., Saab, S., Kleinaltenkamp, M., Baxter, R., & Lee, Y. (2012). The bonding
effects of relationship value and switching costs in industrial buyer–seller relationships: An
investigation into role differences. Industrial Marketing Management, 41(1), 82–93. doi:10.
1016/j.indmarman.2011.11.013.

Gilliland, D. I., & Bello, D. C. (2002). Two sides to attitudinal commitment: The effect of
calculative and loyalty commitment on enforcement mechanisms in distribution channels.
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 30(1), 24–43.

Gordon, I. H. (1999). Relationship marketing: New strategies, technologies, and techniques to win

customers you want and keep them forever. Toronto: Wiley.

Gounaris, S. P. (2005). Trust and commitment inﬂuences on customer retention: Insights from

business-to-business services. Journal of Business Research, 58(2), 126–140.

Gummesson, E. (1987). The new marketing—Developing long-term interactive relationships.

Long Range Planning, 20(4), 10–20. doi:10.1016/0024-6301(87)90151-8.

Gummesson, E. (1994). Broadening and specifying relationship marketing. Asia-Australia Mar-

keting Journal, 2(1), 31–43.

Journal of Marketing, 59(1), 78–92.

Gundlach, G. T., Achrol, R. S., & Mentzer, J. T. (1995). The structure of commitment in exchange.

Ha˚kansson, H. (1982). International marketing and purchasing of industrial goods—An interac-

tion approach. New York, Chichester: Wiley.

Hakansson, H., & Wootz, B. (1979). A framework of industrial buying and selling. Industrial

Marketing Management, 8(1), 28–39.

Halle´n, L., Johanson, J., & Seyed-Mohemed, N. (1991). Interﬁrm adaption in business

relationships. Journal of Marketing, 55, 29–37.

52

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

Halle´n, L., & Wiedersheim-Paul, F. (1979). Psychic distance and buyer-seller interaction. In

Marknad ock Samh€alle (Vol. 16, pp. 308–324).

Heide, J. B. (1994). Interorganizational governance in marketing channels. Journal of Marketing,

58(1), 71–85.

Heide, J. B., & John, G. (1988). The role of dependence balancing in safeguarding transaction-
speciﬁc assets in conventional channels. Journal of Marketing, 52(1), 20–35. doi:10.2307/
1251683.

Heide, J. B., & John, G. (1992). Do norms matter in marketing relationships? Journal of

Marketing, 56(2), 32–44.

Hentschel, B. (1991). Beziehungsmarketing. Das Wirtschaftsstudium, pp. 25–28.
Herkner, W. (1991). Lehrbuch Sozialpsychologie. Bern: Hans Huber.
Hippner, H., Hubrich, B., & Wilde, K. D. (2011). Grundlagen des CRM—Strategie, Gesch€aft-
sprozesse und IT-Unterst€utzung (3rd ed.). Wiesbaden: Gabler. completely revised and
extended edition.

Hogan, J. E., & Armstrong, G. (2001). Toward a resource-based theory of business exchange
relationships: the role of relational asset value. Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing, 8
(4), 3–28. doi:10.1300/J033v08n04_02.

Homburg, C., & Bruhn, M. (2008). Kundenbindungsmanagement—Eine Einﬁihrung in die
theoretischen und praktischen Problemstellungen. In M. Bruhn & C. Homburg (Eds.),
Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement—Strategien und Instrumente f€ur ein erfolgreiches
CRM (6th ed., pp. 3–39). Wiesbaden: Gabler. revised and extended edition.

Jackson, B. B. (1985a). Build customer relationships that last. Harvard Business Review, 63(6),

120–128.

Jackson, B. B. (1985b). Winning and keeping industrial customers—the dynamics of customer

relationships. Lexington, MA: Lexington Books.

Janker, C. G. (2004). Multivariate Lieferantenbewertung—Empirisch gest€utzte Konzeption eines

anforderungsgerechten Bewertungssystems. Wiesbaden: Deutscher Universita¨tsverlag.

Johanson, J., & Mattsson, L.-G. (1985). Marketing investments and market investments in
industrial networks. International Journal of Research in Marketing, 2(3), 185–195. doi:10.
1016/0167-8116(85)90011-4.

Johnson, M. P. (1982). Social and cognitive features of the dissolution of commitment to
relationships. In S. Duck (Ed.), Personal relationships—4. Dissolving personal relationships
(Vol. 4, pp. 51–73). New York: Academic.

Kaufmann, P. J., & Stern, L. W. (1988). Relational exchange norms, perceptions of unfairness, and
retained hostility in commercial litigation. Journal of Conﬂict Resolution, 32(3), 534–552.
doi:10.1177/0022002788032003007.

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Ehret, M. (2006). The value added by speciﬁc investments: A framework
for managing relationships in the context of value networks. Journal of Business & Industrial
Marketing, 21(2), 65–71. doi:10.1108/10610420610651287.

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Ku¨hne, B. (2002). Asymmetrische Bindungen in Gescha¨ftsbeziehungen
des Business-to-Business-Bereichs. In M. Rese, A. So¨llner, & B. P. Utzig (Eds.), Relationship
marketing—Standortbestimmung und Perspektiven (pp. 11–44). Berlin: Springer.

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Plinke, W. (1997). Gesch€aftsbeziehungsmanagement. Berlin: Springer.
Krapfel, R. E., Salmond, D., & Spekman, R. (1991). A strategic approach to managing buyer-seller
doi:10.1108/

of Marketing,

European

Journal

25(9),

22–37.

relationships.
EUM0000000000622.

Ku¨hne, B. (2008). Asymmetrische Bindungen in Gesch€aftsbeziehungen: Einﬂussfaktoren im Busi-

ness-to-Business-Bereich. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Levitt, T. (1985). Der Verkaufsabschluß ist erst ein Anfang. HARVARDmanager, 15–21.
Liu, A. H. (2006). Customer value and switching costs in business services: Developing exit
barriers through strategic value management. Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, 21
(1), 30–37. doi:10.1108/08858620610643157.

2 Theoretical Perspectives of Business Relationships: Explanation and. . .

53

Madhok, A. (2000). Transaction (In)Efﬁciency, value (In)Efﬁciency, and inter-ﬁrm collaboration.
In D. Faulkner & M. de Rond (Eds.), Cooperative strategy: Economic, business and
organisational issues (pp. 74–95). Oxford University Press: Oxford.

Mo¨llner, K., & Wilson, D. T. (1992). Interaction and network approach to business marketing—A
review and evaluation. State College, PA: Institute for the Study of Business Markets,
PennState University.

Morgan, R. M., & Hunt, S. D. (1994). The commitment-trust theory of relationship marketing.

Journal of Marketing, 58(3), 20–38.

Mysen, T., & Svensson, G. (2010). RELQUAL’s impact on satisfaction in Norwegian business
relationships. Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, 25(2), 119–131. doi:10.1108/
08858621011017741.

O’Neal, C. R. (1989). JIT procurement and relationship marketing. Industrial Marketing Manage-

ment, 18(1), 55–63. doi:10.1016/0019-8501(89)90021-7.

Payne, A., & Frow, P. (2005). A strategic framework for customer relationship management.

Journal of Marketing, 69(4), 167–176. doi:10.2307/30166559.

Peck, H., Payne, A. F. T., Christopher, M. G., & Clarke, M. K. (1999). Relationship marketing—

Strategy and implementation: Text and cases. Oxford: Butterworth.

Picot, A. (1991). Ein neuer Ansatz zur Gestaltung der Leistungstiefe. Schmalenbachs Zeitschrift

f€ur betriebswirtschaftliche Forschung, 43(4), 336–357.

Plinke, W. (1989). Die Gescha¨ftsbeziehung als Investition. In G. Specht, G. Silberer, &
W. Engelhardt (Eds.), Marketing-Schnittstellen. Herausforderungen f€ur das Management
(pp. 305–325). Stuttgart: Scha¨ffer-Poeschel.

Plinke, W. (1997). Grundlagen des Gescha¨ftsbeziehungsmanagements. In M. Kleinaltenkamp &

W. Plinke (Eds.), Gesch€aftsbeziehungsmanagement (pp. 1–62). Berlin: Springer.

Plinke, W., & So¨llner, A. (1997). Screening von Risiken in Gescha¨ftsbeziehungen. In W. E.
Engelhardt, K. Backhaus, M. Kleinaltenkamp, W. Plinke, & H. Raffe´e (Eds.), Marktleistung
und Wettbewerb (pp. 331–363). Wiesbaden: Springer Gabler.

Plo¨tner, O. (1995). Das Vertrauen des Kunden. Relevanz, Aufbau und Steuerung auf industriellen

Saab, S. (2007). Commitment in Gesch€aftsbeziehungen. Konzeptualisierung und Operationa-
(Business-to-Business-Marketing).

das Business-to-Business-Marketing

f€ur

M€arkten. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

lisierung
Wiesbaden: DUV.

Schmidt, R. (1983). Grundz€uge der Investitions- und Finanzierungstheorie. Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Sethuraman, R., Anderson, J. C., & Narus, J. A. (1988). Partnership advantage and its determinants
in distributor and manufacturer working relationships. Journal of Business Research, 17(4),
327–347. doi:10.1016/0148-2963(88)90043-4.

Sheth, J. N., & Parvatiyar, A. (1994). Relationship marketing—Theory, methods and applications.

Atlanta

So¨llner, A. (1993). Commitment in Gesch€aftsbeziehungen. Wiesbaden: Gabler.
So¨llner, A. (1996). Asymmetrical commitment in business relationships. Paper presented at the
International Conference on Relationship Marketing: Development, Management, and Gover-
nance of Relationships, Humboldt-Universita¨t zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany, March 29–31th
1996

So¨llner, A. (1999). Asymmetrical commitment in business relationships. Journal of Business

Research, 46(3), 219–233. doi:10.1016/S0148-2963(98)00039-3.

Spekman, R. E., & Johnston, W. J. (1986). Relationship management—Managing the selling and

the buying interface. Journal of Business Research, 14, 519–532.

Stinchcombe, A. L. (1985). Contracts as hierarchical documents. In A. L. Stinchombe & C. A.
Heimer (Eds.), Organization theory and project management. Oslo: Norwegian University
Press.

Thibaut, J., & Kelley, H. H. (1959). The social psychology of groups. New York: Wiley.

54

M. Kleinaltenkamp et al.

Tunder, R. (2000). Der Transaktionswert der Hersteller-Handel-Beziehung—Hintergr€unde,
Konzeptualisierungen und Implikationen auf Basis der Neuen Institutioneno¨konomik.
Wiesbaden: Deutscher Universita¨ts.

Turnbull, P. W., & Wilson, D. T. (1989). Developing and protecting proﬁtable customer

relationships. Industrial Marketing Management, 18(3), 233–238.

Ulaga, W., & Eggert, A. (2006). Value-based differentiation in business relationships: Gaining and
sustaining key supplier status. Journal of Marketing, 70(1), 119–136. doi:10.1509/jmkg.2006.
70.1.119.

Ungruhe, M. (2011). Bezugsobjektspeziﬁsche Investitionen im Business-to-Business-Marketing

(Dissertation). Berlin: Freie Universita¨t Berlin.

Walter, A. (1998). Der Beziehungspromotor—Ein personaler Gestaltungsansatz f€ur erfolgreiches

Relationship Marketing. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Walter, A., Mu¨ller, T. A., Helfert, G., & Ritter, T. (2003). Functions of industrial supplier
relationships and their impact on relationship quality. Industrial Marketing Management, 32
(2), 159–169. doi:10.1016/S0019-8501(02)00230-4.

Weinberg, P., & Terlutter, R. (2003). Verhaltenswissenschaftliche Aspekte der Kundenbindung. In
M. Bruhn & C. Homburg (Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement (4th ed., pp. 41–64).
Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Wilkie, W. L. (1994). Consumer behavior (3rd ed.). New York: John Wiley and Sons.
Williamson, O. E. (1975). Markets and hierarchies—Analysis and antitrust

implications.

New York: Free Press.

Williamson, O. E. (1985). The economic institutions of capitalism. New York: Free Press.
Williamson, O. E. (1986). Economic organization: ﬁrms, markets, and policy control. New York:

Free Press.

Wilson, D. T. (1995). An Integrated model of buyer-seller relationships. Journal of the Academy of

Marketing Science, 23(4), 335–345. doi:10.1177/009207039502300414.

Wilson, D. T. (2003). Value exchange as the foundation stone of relationship marketing. Market-

Wilson, D. T., & Jantrania, S. (1994). Understanding the value of a relationship. Asia-Australia

ing Theory, 3(1), 175.

Marketing Journal, 2(1), 55–66.

Zajac, E. J., & Olsen, C. P. (1993). From transaction cost

to transaction value analysis:
Implications for the study of interorganizational strategies. Journal of Management Studies,
30(1), 131–145.

Analysis, Goals and Strategies of Business
Relationship Management

Part II

Repeat Purchasing in Business
Relationships

3

Frank Jacob

The previous section demonstrated why business relationships make up a separate
topic of business-to-business marketing. Fundamental concepts were established
and, based on theories, a model was formed. Basic conditions were also discussed.
In this context, business relationships are seen as a special variation of the exchange
and sharing between participants in the market. A special feature of the exchange
and sharing within a business relationship is the fact that the customer repeatedly
makes his purchase decision in favor of the same supplier—despite his free choice
to change suppliers, if he so desires. We refer to this as repeat purchasing
behavior. This part of the book focuses on the representation and explanation of
the determinants of such repeat purchasing behavior.

A practical case will be presented and discussed to introduce this topic.

Example 1: Old New Partner

Handelsblatt, December 23, 2000—The Danish toy manufacturer Lego will
once again be using SAP software for corporate management. It was only one
year ago that Oracle, arch rival to the German company, was delighted to
have snatched this European customer from SAP. Now the Americans are
coming out on the short end again. This is good news—at least for SAP. After
all, the Germans were always happy to advertise their afﬁliation with the
well-known Lego logo.

But for the manufacturer of the building blocks, it was more of a bitter
setback. This has little to do with the German software and much more to do
with having changed IT suppliers twice within only ten months. Even in

(continued)

F. Jacob (*)
ESCP Europe, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: fjacob@escpeurope.eu

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5_3

57

58

F. Jacob

faraway Denmark, it is common knowledge that the implementation of
completely new corporate software costs time and a lot of money. Data has
to be prepared and processes changed—all of which involves risk. And taking
this risk in a situation that is difﬁcult anyway makes the decision to switch
suppliers even harder. Maybe SAP should reconsider putting the name Lego
back on its list of references.

The article reports on an exchange and competitive relationship between the
supplier SAP,
the customer Lego and the competitor Oracle—a relationship
characterized by impressive dynamics. Evidently the customer Lego and the sup-
plier SAP originally had a close relationship. However, this was not enduring, and it
fell apart about 1 year before the time of reporting. At that time, Lego replaced its
supplier SAP with the competitor Oracle. What is surprising though is the news that
Lego left its new supplier Oracle and returned to its previous supplier SAP. None of
the participants can really claim these happenings as a success. The Lego manage-
ment committee will surely have to be prepared to explain to its board of directors
why it took such a step back. The SAP sales department was fortunate to have been
able to regain Lego as a customer, but they undoubtedly had difﬁcult questions to
answer from within their own company in the meantime. And the Oracle sales
department suffered serious embarrassment for the short-lived prestige gained by
supplying Lego. A rash explanation of these events could be to blame a lack of
professionalism on the part of all participants. As we see it though, the problems
were caused primarily by a lack of understanding the special aspects of the behavior
of the market participants in business relationships. Such behavior deﬁnitely
follows its own rules. The intention is to investigate the rules.

The purpose of examining purchase behavior is to ﬁnd an explanation for
purchase decisions. The distinctive feature of a—functioning—business relation-
ship is that the customer repeatedly makes purchase decisions in favor of the same
supplier and forfeits the opportunity to change suppliers. This means that the
situation can be examined at two different levels: the explanation of the repeat
purchasing behavior in the respective market transaction and the description of
the business relationship in the time sequence. This differentiation provides the
structure for our deliberations.

3.1

Repeat Purchasing and the Market Transaction

transactions that

The understanding that a business relationship is the consequence of a sequence of
market
is not coincidental (Chap. 1) is the basis for our
deliberations in this part as well. The central aspect of this is the individual market
transaction between a supplier and a customer. As mentioned above, the intention is
to explain the reasons why a customer enters over time into a series of transactions
with the same supplier, although he has other alternatives available. In other words:

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

59

We want to explain repeat purchasing behavior. Once again, we will apply the
exchange paradigm introduced in Chap. 1 as the basic concept. This means that the
prerequisite for an exchange is the coming together of customer beneﬁts and
supplier beneﬁts (Plinke 2000). Thorough understanding of the repeat purchasing
as a consequence of the structure of the customer beneﬁt is clearly instrumental to
the success of the supplier’s management behavior in an actual business relation-
ship. Thus, intensive analysis of potential variations of the customer beneﬁt and its
signiﬁcance for the occurrence of repeat purchasing is the focus of Sect. 3.1.1.
Consideration of the supplier advantage reveals conclusions that help us understand
the customer’s repeat purchasing. Although this perspective is seldomly taken, we
consider this representation to be essential in conjunction with the topic of business
relationships. We apply an interaction paradigm for marketing purposes (Plinke
1991), and in Sect. 3.1.2 we will demonstrate how insight into the structure of the
supplier advantage helps improve business relationship management in the actual
markets.

3.1.1 Customer Benefit as a Determinant of Repeat Purchasing

this concept,

Repeat purchasing is the result of certain constellations of the customer beneﬁt. To
develop an understanding of
such constellations must be
differentiated. The bonding plays a key role as a behavior determinant. The
customer’s repeat purchasing behavior can be differentiated in this sense by
whether it would occur without the inﬂuence of such a bonding or whether the
bonding was decisive (Bliemel and Eggert 1998). Repeat purchasing in which
bonding is not a factor is founded either on the effect of the core offering or on
the effect of the ancillary services. Bonding itself is attributed to economic causes
or to the effect of rather psychological causes such as trust and commitment (Linke
2006). Trust and commitment as attitudes can be supported by all three of the other
causes of repeat purchasing mentioned. Figure 3.1 offers an overview of the
potential explanations of repeat purchasing as they can be attributed to the structure
of the customer beneﬁt. The outline of the following sections follows the classiﬁ-
cation shown.

3.1.1.1 Repeat Purchasing Caused by the Elements of Exchange
We see a core service of an offer to be the element of the service that are
fundamentally (Kotler and Bliemel 2001) or substantially (Homburg and Krohmer
2003; Meffert 2000) suited to meeting the functional needs of the customer. These
needs are characterized by the fact that they give the customer grounds to enter into
exchange activities with suppliers. Ancillary services, on the other hand, can
enhance the beneﬁts of a core service, but alone they are not capable of meeting
the functional needs of the customer (Meffert 2000). So they merely provide
ancillary beneﬁt. Both categories can promote repurchase.

60

F. Jacob

Repurchase behavior based on
customer benefit  

…

… due to elements 

of exchange

… due to bonding

core service

economic bonding

additional service

trust and 
commitment

Fig. 3.1 Business relationship management—altered market focus. Source: Based on Jacob
(2009)

The Core Service as the Reason for Repeat Purchasing Behavior
The essential beneﬁt for the customer is derived from the composition of the core
service. In following our exchange argument in Chap. 1, beneﬁt and price in turn
form the central parameters for the composition of the customer beneﬁt. If the
supplier is successful in creating beneﬁts to the customer on the basis of the core
service, the customer will enter into the exchange with this supplier and not with a
competitor. Figure 3.2 illustrates this correlation.

The customer has two offers to choose from: one from the focal supplier (S), the
other from the competitor (C), which is in this case the most appealing alternative to
supplier (S) for the customer. To even be considered by the customer, both offers
must on their own demonstrate a positive net beneﬁt, meaning that the anticipated
beneﬁt of the offer must exceed the price to be paid. But the customer will still only
choose one of the offers, namely the one with the greatest net beneﬁt. We refer to
this difference as the relative net beneﬁt. In the situation illustrated, such a relative
net beneﬁt favors supplier (S) over competitor (C) in the customer’s favor and
forms the basis for a customer beneﬁt advantageous to the supplier (S). If the
supplier is able to maintain this customer beneﬁt over the long term, the customer
will continue to favor this supplier over competitors (Bliemel and Eggert 1998;
Meffert 2005), meaning that he will make future purchases from the supplier as
subsequent transactions. So in this case repeat purchasing is the result of enduring,
“simple” customer beneﬁt. Plinke (1997) calls this a de facto business relationship.
An example of the signiﬁcance of de facto business relationships in business
markets is the empirically veriﬁable proportion of these regular customers in the
customer base of the German mechanical engineering sector. Corresponding data

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

61

Fig. 3.2 Customer beneﬁt as
relative net beneﬁt

Purchaser perspective

t
i
f

e
n
e
b

 
,

e
c
i
r

P

Net
benefit

Relative
net
benefit

Net
benefit

)

S

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

)

S

(
 

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

C

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

C

(

Competitor (C)

Supplier (S)

was discovered by the NIFA panel, which conducted speciﬁc research at the Ruhr-
Universita¨t Bochum from 1991 through 1997 (Jacob 2002). Over time, more than
40 % of all registered German mechanical engineering companies took part, which
makes the study highly representative of the market. When the time span 1996 was
examined, it was shown that an average of about 50 % of all of a mechanical
engineering companies’ customers are regular customers. The proportion of total
sales generated from business with regular customers was determined to be around
75 %.

It should be noted, however, that repeat purchasing behavior is linked to the
sustainability of customer beneﬁt from the core service of the exchange relation-
ship. If the structures of the exchange change, e.g. if a competitor increases the
beneﬁt of his offer to the customer or reduces the prices, the basis for repeat
purchasing behavior is negated. Innovations, price changes or a stronger pace in
the competition can affect switching. The customer will then immediately switch to
the supplier making the most appealing offer (Bliemel and Eggert 1998). Thus
repeat purchasing behavior is linked to the sustainable maintenance of the customer
beneﬁt in the exchange relationship; long-term security of the customer beneﬁt
must be the focus of the supplier.

Ancillary Services as the Reason for Repeat Purchasing
Ancillary services can take many different shapes, whereby the aspect referred to
as customer service (Stauss 1991), often has particular signiﬁcance (Meffert 2000).
Examples of customer service are: technical and administrative customer support;
ordering service; delivery; assembly; supply of spare parts; maintenance; repair,
option to exchange a product;
internet-based
services; and also the availability of the supplier’s distribution centers. Just like
the core service, ancillary services change the exchange relationships (Reichheld

training and courses; hotlines;

62

Fig. 3.3 Ancillary service
and repeat purchasing
behavior. Source: Based on
Jacob (2009)

t
i
f

e
n
e
b

 
,

e
c
i
r

P

F. Jacob

Relative
net
benefit

Purchaser perspective

i

e
c
v
r
e
s
 
l
a
n
o
i
t
i
d
d
a

i

e
c
v
r
e
s
 
e
r
o
C

)

S

(
 

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

C

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

C

(

Competitor (C)

Supplier (S)

1993). Figure 3.3 offers a general overview of the effect of ancillary services on
exchange relationships.

The illustration shows the situation in which the customer beneﬁt favors the
supplier (S)—a beneﬁt resulting from the combined effect of core and ancillary
services (Diller 2007). Just like a customer beneﬁt based on a core service, such a
customer beneﬁt can motivate the customer to repeat purchasing. For this to
happen, the supplier has to offer unique ancillary services or has to surpass
competitors in regard to the quantity and quality of ancillary services. Once
again, this repeat purchasing will endure only as long as the beneﬁts of the
exchange relationship favoring the supplier can be maintained. If the beneﬁts of
the relationship change, e.g. due to measures taken by the competitor, the customer
will immediately change suppliers and cease repeat purchasing. However, it is often
said that particularly ancillary services are harder for the competition to imitate than
core services (Meffert 2000), and repeat purchasing founded on ancillary services is
more resistant to competitors’ measures than is repeat purchasing based on a core
service.

As the following deﬁnition demonstrates, ancillary services implemented by the
supplier for the express purpose of motivating the customer to repurchase are
summarized by the term Customer Relationship Management (CRM): “CRM
is a customer-oriented corporate philosophy that, with the aid of modern informa-
tion technology, attempts to build and solidify proﬁtable customer relationships
over the long term by applying comprehensive and differentiated marketing, sales
and service concepts” (Hippner et al. 2001, p. 417). CRM is further speciﬁed in
Fig. 3.4.

The illustration indicates that there are three dimensions of Customer Relation-
ship Management (Hippner and Wilde 2005; Pritzl and Lauer 2003). Analytical
CRM means that information related to the data object single customer is collected,

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

63

Internet

E-mail

Mailings

Telephone

Mobile

Personal
contact

TV/
radio

Marketing
Automation

Sales

Automation

Service

Automation

Analysis

tools

Data base

C
o
m
m
u
n
c
a
t
i

i

C
R
M

v
e

O
p
e
r
a
t
i

C
R
M

v
e

A
n
a
y
t
i

l

C
R
M

c
a

l

Fig. 3.4 CRM and the constellation of ancillary services. Source: Based on Hippner et al. (2001)

maintained and prepared for use. Tools used for analytical CRM are modern
electronic databases as well as special tools for data analysis. These tools can be
used to support operative CRM in the sense of marketing processes, sales processes
and service processes. This enhances the impact of general advertising campaigns
by directly addressing individual customers electronically. In sales, schedule man-
agement can be automated and thus improved. The user-friendly design of systems
for E-commerce is a variation that improves service processes. But each operative
CRM is always characterized by the use of modern technologies to communicate
with the individual customer, meaning that communicative CRM must be named as
an ancillary dimension. Figure 3.4 indicates the respective communication
technologies. It must, however, be taken into consideration that especially these
technologies are subject to vast dynamics right now. Example 2 uses a practical
example to illustrate the effect of CRM as an ancillary service to the customer
beneﬁt.

Example 2: CRM in Material Sales

Bayer MaterialScience is a manufacturer and supplier of high-quality
materials and is a global market leader in the ﬁeld. A challenge faced by
the sales department is the global and sometimes very nontransparent struc-
ture of its own customers. “Our old customer relationship management was
distributed amongst about a dozen parts of old systems we had developed
ourselves. We had to gather the required information from different databases
and transaction systems. We saw the opportunity to achieve absolute

(continued)

64

F. Jacob

transparency with a uniform CRM solution,” says Dietmar Gasch, head of
Organization and Informations Systems for Bayer MaterialScience. The
introduction of a uniform CRM system not only improved internal processes,
it also generated direct beneﬁts to the customers: “Using the web platform,
customers can call up status information on orders and deliveries, download
data sheets, safety information or certiﬁcates, or check the availability of the
desired products any time they wish.” (Blache et al. 2005)

3.1.1.2 Repeat Buying Due to Bonding
While customers who repeatedly buy from the same supplier because of the core
and ancillary services continue this behavior as long as the exchange relationship
with the respective supplier remains beneﬁcial, repeat buying based on bonding is
resistant to such changes, at least in the short and middle term (Diller 2007; Pritzl
and Lauer 2003). Relevant literature differentiates between a demand-or output
based understanding of the term customer bonding and a supplier- or input-based
understanding of the term (Diller 1996; Dittrich 2000). When describing customer
bonding, demand-based describes customer behavior that leads to repurchase. In
regard to the supplier, the term bonding summarizes all measures taken by the
supplier intended to promote the customer’s behavior. So it would be correct to
refer to customer bonding management (Weinberg and Terlutter 2005). We will
initially apply a demand-based understanding of the term. Bonding in this sense can
be attributed to economic effects on the one hand and to the attitude constructs trust
and commitment on the other.

Economic Effects as the Reason for Customer Bonding
Bonding based on economic effects is referred to by Bliemel and Eggert (1998) as
obligation—as opposed to bonding—of the customer. Economic obligations (lock-in)
means that certain elements have to be considered in the exchange relationship that
make it more difﬁcult for the customer to change from his current supplier to a
competitor. Individually, these elements can be about the impact of speciﬁcity and of
satisfaction (Linke 2006).

Specificity as Switching Barrier
The term speciﬁcity was coined by Williamson (Williamson 1990) in the course of
his contributions to the development of transaction cost economics. Speciﬁcity very
generally describes a characteristic of resources. It means that the resources can
only deliver their full beneﬁts in a certain, speciﬁc context (Linke 2006). If the
initial acquisition of the resources is linked to a payment, one refers to a speciﬁc
investment. The difference between reaping the full beneﬁts and reaping the
beneﬁts of the next-best alternative use is called the quasi rent (Linke 2006).
Speciﬁcity becomes interesting to business relationships when the context deals

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

65

with the continuation of the exchange relationship with one and the same partner
(Preß 1997). Speciﬁc resources can occur in the most varied shapes, which is clearly
shown in Examples 3 and 4.

Example 3: Manufacturer Warranty for a New Car

When a consumer buys a new car, he generally purchases not only the vehicle
but also the legal claim to its proper functioning for a certain length of time.
Such a warranty is usually valid for three years. Special legal regulations
allow manufacturers of motor vehicles to require to some extent that the
regular maintenance and service work be performed in one of
the
manufacturer’s authorized shops for the warranty to remain valid. So if the
owner of a new vehicle wishes to retain the full warranty provided by the
manufacturer, he cannot have any required maintenance performed by an
independent garage. Upholding his legal claim to the warranty is tied to
repeatedly buying maintenance services in an authorized shop.

Example 4: Frequent Flyer Cards

There are some very successful bonus programs in the airline industry, like
Lufthansa’s Miles and More program (Eisena¨cher 2005). Passengers can sign
up for the program and then accumulate points every time they ﬂy with the
respective airline. When they reach a certain number of points, the points can
be redeemed for an award, usually a free ﬂight. However, an amount of points
below the required minimum amount would lose its complete value, were the
passenger to decide to no longer ﬂy with that airline but to take advantage of
offers from competitor airlines. So the value of the points can be maintained
only by frequenting ﬂights from the same airline in the future.

If the customer has made an investment speciﬁc to the supplier or if he has a
resource speciﬁc to the supplier, the quasi rent should always be taken into
consideration when evaluating the exchange relationships. It always makes the
competitor’s offer less attractive. After all, the investment or resources would be
lost, were the customer to leave the context of the business relationship. As Fig. 3.5
shows, this effect of speciﬁc resources can shift the customer beneﬁt in an exchange
relationship (an alternative representation for the same situation can be found in
(Plinke 1997). If without the inﬂuence of the speciﬁc resource there would be a
customer beneﬁt for the competitor, the existence of a speciﬁc resource would make
it a disadvantage to the customer. Because speciﬁcity is a phenomenon that outlasts
the individual transaction, it can form an enduring basis for repeat purchasing.

So inducing the customer to make speciﬁc investments can be a way to secure
repeat buying. However, the effect of speciﬁc resources in securing repeat buying
has limits. On the one hand, it must be taken into consideration that, as with most

66

F. Jacob

Without specific resources

With specific resources

t
i
f

e
n
e
b

 
,

e
c
i
r

P

)

C

(
 
e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

C

(
 
t
i
f
e
n
e
B

Relative
net
benefit

Quasi
rent

)

S

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

S

(

)

C

(
 
t
i
f
e
n
e
B

)

C

(
 
e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

S

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

Relative
net
benefit

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

S

(

Competitor (C)

Supplier (S)

Competitor (C)

Supplier (S)

Fig. 3.5 Speciﬁcity in the exchange relationship. Source: Based on Jacob (2009)

resources, speciﬁc resources lose value over time (Dittrich 2000; Weiber and Adler
2003). If the age of a new car exceeds the warranty period in Example 3, the
obligation imposed by the warranty to have maintenance and repairs performed at
an authorized shop is no longer relevant. The same applies to the miles accumulated
in the frequent ﬂyer account in Example 4, once the points have been cashed in for
an award. The passenger can then join and use a different airline’s frequent ﬂyer
program, if he so chooses. But on the other hand Bliemel and Eggert (1998) point
out that bonding in the sense of obligation (lock-in) is not in the customer’s best
interest. Lock-in signiﬁes dependency, which poses a risk for the costumer. So it
can be expected that costumers will demonstrate strong reactance to a supplier’s
attempts to induce the customer to make speciﬁc investments. These would be
defensive reactions to internal or external restrictions. This is why marketers should
promote speciﬁcity that leads to customer satisfaction (Dittrich 2000).

Satisfaction as Switching Barrier
Satisfaction always creates a bonding effect when, in an exchange situation, the
offers of competitors seem to be uncertain. Uncertainty can be the result of
uncertain elements related to beneﬁt or price. The following example illustrates a
speciﬁc type of uncertainty occurring in exchanges on business markets.

Example 5: Uncertainty in Exchanges Occurring on Business Markets

In its edition of November 4, 2009, no. 256, the newspaper Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung reports on page 17: Price increase in SAP mainte-
nance—To the annoyance of its German customers, the software corporation
SAP has raised the prices for standard maintenance. As the SAP user group
DSAG stated, “In view of the current economic situation and to facilitate

(continued)

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

67

reverting to a trustful business relationship, a general suspension of the price
increase would have been the right thing to do.” The group conjectures that
the price increases for standard maintenance are intended to force the
customers into the more expensive Enterprise Support. The quintessence of
the dispute is the increase in maintenance costs planned last year, rising from
17 to 22 percent of the license fees. Revenue generated from maintenance is
essential to the corporation, helping it to compensate for the slump in license
fee revenue.

Opportunistic behavior, which the customer has to assume of all suppliers, can
lead to an absence of beneﬁts. Opportunism refers to conscious acceptance of a
disadvantage for others with the intention of furthering one’s own best interest
(Williamson 1990). SAP’s behavior in Example 5 can be interpreted as such, at
least from the user’s or customer’s point of view. Transaction costs that the
customer incurs due to measures intended to protect him from such opportunism,
force up the price for the customer. The same is true for hidden prices, for ancillary
services for which the necessity is not apparent until later, and for high maintenance
and service costs that the customer is not informed of until after conclusion of the
contract. Figure 3.6 shows how uncertainty impacts the perception of the net beneﬁt
of a single offer. It is especially apparent that the uncertainty shown poses a threat
to the net beneﬁt that the supplier anticipates from the offer.

In conjunction with Fig. 3.6, Fig. 3.7 offers a general explanation of how
uncertainty can impact the customer beneﬁt. We will ﬁrst examine the left side of
the illustration. Two competing offers—one from the focal supplier (S), the other
from the competitor (C) who once again represents the best alternative to supplier
(S)—are characterized by uncertainty. The net beneﬁt of both offers—before the
exchange—is endangered, because the customer cannot be certain about whether
his expectations in regard to beneﬁt and price will be met.

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

Purchaser perspective

t

e
N

t
i
f

e
n
e
b

Possibly
lacking
benefit elements
Secure
net benefit
Any other
additional price
element

)

S

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

)

S

(
 
e
c
i
r

P

"Insecure" benefit elements
– Quality deficiencies 

visible later
Lack of compatibility
Technological leaps

–
–
– …

"Insecure" price elements

– Hidden prices
– Additional services 

required

– High 

maintenance/service 
costs

– …

Fig. 3.6 Uncertain net beneﬁt in the market transaction. Source: Based on Jacob (2009)

68

F. Jacob

Before exchange process:
Uncertainty

After exchange process:
Satisfaction

t
i
f

e
n
e
b

 
,

e
c
i
r

P

t
i
f

e
n
e
b

 
,

e
c
i
r

P

)

C

(
 
e
c
i
r
p

r
e

f
f

O

t
i
f

e
n
e
B

t
i
f

e
n
e
B

)

S

(
 
e
c
i
r
p

r
e

f
f

O

)

C

(
 
e
c
i
r
p

r
e

f
f

O

t
i
f

e
n
e
B

t
i
f

e
n
e
B

)

S

(
 
e
c
i
r
p

r
e

f
f

O

Competitor (C)

Supplier (S)

Competitor (C)

Supplier (S)

Fig. 3.7 Uncertainty and satisfaction as determinants of customer beneﬁt. Source: Based on
Jacob (2009)

The supplier who succeeds in achieving an exchange with the customer has the
unique opportunity to deliver satisfaction and eliminate uncertainty with the con-
stellation of the service offered. This happens by not displaying any opportunistic
behavior and by performing the service as it was promised and as the customer
expects. Transaction costs to overcome uncertainties are no longer incurred once
the customer has experienced such satisfaction. A general overview of this principle
can be seen on the right side of Fig. 3.7. Supplier (S) increases the beneﬁts of his
offer, while the competitor’s offers continue to be impacted by uncertainty. This
inﬂuence is enduring, because transactions with the competitors always pose the
risk of disappointment—a risk to which the customer does not wish to expose
himself (Dittrich 2000). So under the conditions described, satisfaction encourages
the customer’s repeat buying.

Example 6: Customer Relationships in the Logistics Field

In a press release, the company Deutsche Post DHL reports: DHL Express
expedites complaint management—How good a customer relationship is
particularly apparent when mistakes are made and the customer complains.
The less bureaucracy the company shows in handling the complaint, the more
enthusiastic is the customer. Since even the specialist for quick and reliable
deliveries within the postal system cannot eliminate every potential error,
complaint management is a high priority at DHL Express. A special service
offered by DHL allows customers to specify the precise time that critical

(continued)

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

69

shipments are delivered to the recipient. If DHL Express cannot meet the
delivery time, the customer is ensured a refund of the shipping costs. The
customer has simply to call the service hotline. However, when customers
were surveyed, it was revealed that they found the wait too long when they
called the hotline. The source of the problem was quickly apparent: The
service employees at the hotline were not authorized to decide whether or not
the demanded refund was justiﬁed—even when the customer was obviously
right. The hotline personnel have since been trained to evaluate complaints
and decide on shipping cost refunds to regular customers. Subsequent cus-
tomer surveys indicated much fewer complaints about delays. And customer
satisfaction as well as the intention to remain a customer of DHL rose.

As these examples show, satisfaction is something that does not just happens on
its own: The supplier has to act consciously to achieve it. The actions required to
succeed in delivering customer satisfaction are summarized under the term satis-
faction management. The basic functionality for this concept is supplied by the
conﬁrmation/disconﬁrmation paradigm (C/D) (Kaiser 2005; Krafft 1999). Accord-
ingly, expectations and perceptions of the customer upon purchasing a product or
using a service form the starting point for the development of satisfaction or
dissatisfaction. In a subjective comparison process, the customer looks at the
service as he expects it from the supplier on the one hand and the service as he
actually perceives it on the other. Conﬁrmation means that the perception meets the
expectations. If the perceived actual service exceeds the anticipated service, it is
referred to as positive disconﬁrmation. If, on the other hand, the actual service falls
short of the expectation, it is negative disconﬁrmation. Conﬁrmation and positive
disconﬁrmation result in satisfaction, while negative disconﬁrmation leads to dis-
satisfaction. Figure 3.8 illustrates these correlations. So satisfaction can be classi-
ﬁed as an attitude resulting from cognitive processes as well as from emotional
elements (Foscht and Swoboda 2004; Steffenhagen 2004).

The C/D paradigm is applied as a management approach in the so-called GAP
model by Zeithaml, Berry and Parasuraman (Hentschel 1990; Zeithaml et al. 1988).
This model ﬁrst cites the sources of expectations, and then shows the individual
needs, experiences from the past, word-of-mouth communication with other market
participants and the supplier’s communications aimed at the customers. It also
clearly indicates how the supplier’s services develop and where the causes of
non-fulﬁllment of expectations of the services lie—in other words, the gaps
(Fig. 3.9).

Gap 1 indicates deﬁcits in anticipating customer expectations. This deﬁcit can be
the result of errors in market research or of a lack of sensitivity to customer wishes
on the part of service personnel. Gap 2 relates to errors in designing speciﬁcations
to meet expectations. This can usually be attributed to poor internal communica-
tion. Gap 3 shows that poor implementation of speciﬁcations can also be a source of
later dissatisfaction. This could be due to e.g. inadequate technical equipment of the

70

F. Jacob

Expectations

Perception

Evaluation process

(comparison)

Confirmation

(perception = expectation)

Negative 

disconfirmation

(perception < expectation)

Positive 

disconfirmation

(perception > expectation)

Dissatisfaction

Satisfaction

Fig. 3.8 The C/D paradigm. Source: Based on Foscht and Swoboda (2004)

Word-of-mouth 
communication

Individual needs

Past experiences

Customer

Supplier

GAP1

Expected performance

GAP5

Perceived performance

Delivery

GAP4

Communication 
geared towards 

customer

GAP3

GAP2

Implementation of 
expectations in 
specifications

Perceived customer 

expectations

Fig. 3.9 The GAP model of customer satisfaction. Source: Based on Zeithaml et al. (1988)

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

71

supplier. Gap 4 illustrates the divergence between communicated service and the
actual service rendered, whereby a higher service standard is communicated than
rendered. This is generally referred to as “over-promising” and is caused by poor
horizontal communication within the supplier company, e.g. between advertising
and product management. Finally, gap 5 indicates the evaluation process of the
customer and is the result of all preceding gaps.

In addition to the great degree of detail, another beneﬁt of the GAP model is that,
by examining the gaps, speciﬁc approaches can be found for practical management
of customer satisfaction (Bruhn 2001; Kleinaltenkamp and Jacob 2006). Decision
makers can see which sub-processes within the company need to be analyzed and
potentially improved as well as monitored over the long term.

In published literature, satisfaction is often named as the central element deter-
mining customer bonding and thus ensuring repeat purchasing (Krafft 1999).
Satisfaction is the root of a bonding effect to the extent that changes in the
competitors’ offerings do not affect the decision of the customer as long as the
market remains uncertain. This is the difference between repeat buying based on
satisfaction as well as on speciﬁc resources and repeat buying based on core and
ancillary services, where a change by the competitor in the exchange relationship
immediately causes the customer to reconsider his choice of supplier. But it should
also be pointed out that the bonding effect of satisfaction should be considered
weaker when the number of competing offers is not characterized by uncertainty. If
the customer can be certain that the services will be performed as expected, he can
deﬁnitely assess all of the alternative offers, even if he has had no previous
experience with the suppliers. Satisfaction then poses no more switching barriers.
Conﬁrmation of this can be found in studies performed in certain industries, proving
that even customers prone to switching are highly to very highly satisﬁed with the
original supplier (Reichheld 1993; Weinberg and Terlutter 2005). However, this
insight does not absolve company decision makers from their obligation to assign
utmost importance to satisfaction management.

Trust and Commitment as a Source of Customer Bonding
While customer bonding on the basis of economic effects is referred to as obligation
or lock-in, trust and commitment lead to customer bonding in a merely positive
sense (Bliemel and Eggert 1998). The repeat purchasing behavior that this bonding
promotes is based on a customer’s positive and outstanding attitude regarding a
single supplier (Plinke 1997; Weinberg and Terlutter 2005). The positive attitude is
attributed to trust in the supplier and is manifested in commitment to the supplier.
Thus trust and commitment are key factors of customer bonding in the sense of
demand-based bonding (Bliemel and Eggert 1998; Bruhn 2001; Dittrich 2000).

We generally see trust as an expectation construct. The more speciﬁc under-
standing of the term in published literature is multi-faceted and more complex
(Blomqvist 1997; Plo¨tner 1995) deﬁnition is representative of how the term is
understood: “Trust is the expectation that a person or group of persons has not
or will not act in an opportunistic manner in regard to a deliberate event, at least
not towards the person extending the trust” (Plo¨tner 1995, p. 36). Thus trust is

72

F. Jacob

characterized by the conscious relinquishing of supervisory measures (Linke 2006).
In the sense of a (neo-) behavioral interpretation, the expectation construct trust
arises from certain appealing factors or stimuli originating with the object of the
expectation (supplier) and perceived by the person extending his trust (customer)
(Preß 1997).

Commitment, on the other hand, expresses the intentional element of the posi-
tive and outstanding attitude of the customer towards the supplier. There are also
(So¨llner 1993). Moorman
diverse deﬁnitions and models for commitment
et al. (Moorman et al. 1992, p. 316) phrase it concisely: “Commitment to the
relationship is deﬁned as an enduring desire to maintain a valued relationship.”
This includes the willingness to make short-term sacriﬁces (Dittrich 2000).

Example 7 demonstrates how a positive attitude based on trust and commitment

can actually inﬂuence repeat purchasing.

Example 7: Bonding to Supplier When Purchasing an Automobile

The market research institutes Deutsche Automobil Treuhand GmbH (DAT)
and Gesellschaft fu¨r Konsumforschung AG (GfK) regularly conduct studies
to collect fundamental information on the development of the automobile
market in Germany. The information is published in the DAT-Report. The
study also identiﬁes the degree of bonding to manufacturers when purchasing
new and used vehicles. For the year 2005, it was determined that 45 % of used
car buyers and 59 % of new car buyers were loyal to the manufacturer from
which they purchased their last vehicle. Within sales of new cars, bonding to
the manufacturer was more pronounced amongst buyers of German brands
than those who chose foreign cars.

Trust and commitment make existing business relationships resistant to compet-
itive measures. Similar to repeat based on satisfaction, repeat purchasing based on
commitment and trust differs signiﬁcantly from repeat purchasing on the basis of
core and/or ancillary services. In the sense of an argument introduced by Plinke
(2000), trust and commitment represent the emotional and conscious attitudes of the
customer, which are reason to ignore competitors’ offers when evaluating the
exchange relationship. So we can assume that the bonding (loyalty) effect based
on trust and commitment
is even stronger than that based on satisfaction.
Figure 3.10 illustrates this understanding of the effect of trust and commitment
using our basic exchange theory model. The pale area in the bar representing the
competitor’s offer in a situation characterized by a customer’s trust and commit-
ment signiﬁes the mental “ignoring.”

Trust and commitment are established over time. They can emerge as a result of
all of the other factors mentioned thus far that promote repeat purchasing—core
services, ancillary services and economic switching barriers. So the triggers for
repeat purchasing that we are dealing with here are not unrelated, which is clearly
demonstrated in Fig. 3.1.

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

73

Purchaser perspective

without trust and commitment

Purchaser perspective 

with trust and commitment

t
i
f

e
n
e
b

 
,

e
c
i
r

P

Relative
net
benefit

)

C

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

)

C

(
 

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

S

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

)

S

(

f
f

O

Relative
net
benefit

)

C

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

)

C

(
 
e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

S

(
 
t
i
f

e
n
e
B

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

)

S

(

f
f

O

Competitor (C)

Supplier (S)

Competitor (C)

Supplier (S)

Fig. 3.10 Trust and commitment in an exchange relationship. Source: Based on Jacob (2009)

Trust as an expectation on the part of the customer is thus a behavioral determi-
nant that can deﬁnitely be acknowledged as an emergent factor. This means that
trust develops implicitly over
the
participants. The form and extent of trust always remain emergent or implicit.
However, some fundamental correlations to active and systematic management of
trust can still be posed. Measures to promote trust apply the effect of references,
similarity, self-conﬁdence and reciprocity (Plo¨tner and Jacob 1996). The
correlations will be explained brieﬂy here.

time, without superﬁcial

intentions of

The supplier’s past transactions and projects are referred to as references or
referrals. They become relevant to the aspect of trust when they prove that the trust
that others placed in the supplier was not violated. This type of conﬁrmation can
also form the foundation for expectations of trustworthiness geared towards the
future. To be able maximize the beneﬁt of their effect for a certain customer, the
supplier should carefully select references before presenting them to the customer
(Gu¨nter 1979).

The effect of similarity in establishing trust has been proven in a multitude of
empirical studies (Crosby et al. 1990; Schoch 1969). Findings show that people
tend to trust a counterpart in whom they see similarity. If a supplier would like to
use this correlation to establish trust and business relationships, there are two
fundamental ways to go about it:

(cid:129) One method is to select only the target segments that are compatible with the

supplier’s customer contact personnel.

(cid:129) The other way is to recruit employees who are similar to a speciﬁed segment of

customers.

The consistency of the behavior of the person or group of persons to which the
trust is extended is also an object of the expectations linked to the trust. Only

74

F. Jacob

persons who behave consistently can be considered to be trustworthy. In contrast,
inconsistent behavior leads to mistrust, because the behavior cannot be anticipated.
One indicator of consistent behavior is a person’s self-conﬁdence (Plo¨tner 1995).
So we can assume a correlation between the trustworthiness of a supplier and the
self-conﬁdence of his employees at the interface to customers. Self-conﬁdence is
primarily a personality trait. If it is to be applied to promote trust in relationship
management, self-conﬁdence can be speciﬁed as a criterion in the selection of
personnel who will be dealing with customers. However, self-conﬁdence can be
build up within certain limits. There is an approach from behavioral theory that
states that self-conﬁdence can be promoted applying an incentive system
(Petermann 1996). The employee is confronted with tasks that he must master. If
he is successful, he knows that his success is due to his own skills. The employee
experiences a great degree of self-efﬁcacy, which leads to conﬁdence in himself.
This approach is implemented in the course of leadership to directly promote self-
conﬁdence and thus indirectly establish customer trust.

The ﬁnal principle for targeted management of trust is reciprocity. Quite a few
authors (Plo¨tner 1995) are convinced that a trusting relationship can only be based
on a relationship of mutual trust or reciprocity. So one can expect trust from a
counterpart only when one is willing to trust the counterpart. This thesis has been
conﬁrmed by experiments performed as part of game theory (Axelrod 1987).
Reciprocity is fortiﬁed by repeated extension of trust by both parties. But despite
the mutuality, one participant must still take the ﬁrst step. The ﬁeld of conﬂict
studies (Osgood 1959) has offered suggestions on how a party interested in
establishing trust can initiate a so-called spiral of trust. The steps are:

1. One’s own interest in a trusting cooperation should be communicated
2. Then a signal of one’s own initiative must be conveyed
3. The initiative should be implemented and
4. The counterpart should be invited to share in reciprocal behavior.

For relationship management, this means that trust management requires some
preliminary work. This can take the form e.g. of offering a free consultation with no
obligation. It is, however, important to restrict the scope of the preliminary work.
After all, the principle of reciprocity implies quid pro quo. If the preliminary work
is considerable, the customer may feel overwhelmed by the expectation. So reci-
procity applies a policy of small steps towards establishing trust.

Table 3.1 summarizes these approaches for the management of trust in the

context of relationship marketing.

3.1.2 Supplier Benefit as a Determinant of Repeat Purchasing

The previous sections dealt with uncertainty on the part of the supplier as an
essential behavior determinant for the perception of a customer beneﬁt on the
part of the customer. In extreme cases, the customer may refrain completely from

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

75

Table 3.1 Management of trust

References

Similarity

Self-conﬁdence

Reciprocity

(cid:129) Identiﬁcation of references
(cid:129) Cooperation with references
(cid:129) Assurance of references to provide information
(cid:129) Similarity at the individual level
(cid:129) Similarity at the group level
(cid:129) Similarity at the corporate level
(cid:129) Self-conﬁdence as trait required of new recruits
(cid:129) Establishment of incentive systems that reinforce behavior
(cid:129) Measures to increase the professional and social competence of employees
(cid:129) Initiation of spirals of trust
(cid:129) Promotion of leverage symmetry in the supplier/customer relationship

Source: Based on Plo¨tner (1995)

the market exchange, because the conditions that he requires for a positive net
beneﬁt are no longer given. The supplier then has various measures on hand to
eliminate uncertainty perceived by the customer and to once again ensure the
conditions that facilitate an exchange. The supplier’s intention to continue a
business relationship plays a certain role with these measures. As we will show,
such an intention is relevant to the structure of the supplier advantage. After
explaining the fundamentals of contract theory, we will reveal this correlation.

3.1.2.1 Contract Theory
An initial approach to mastering the challenge posed by uncertainty perceived by
the customer can be found in the legal system, where contracts are used as the
respective instrument. Contracts are generally seen as a way to ensure safety and
reliability for the contracting parties. Contract theory names three very general
differentiations in the types of contracts, as shown in Table 3.2 (Macaulay 1963;
Macneil 1978; Williamson 1979).

The classical contract is the standard form of a contract and attempts to ﬁnd
wording that covers all potential contingencies that could present a cause for
uncertainty. Purchase contracts, rental contracts or service contracts generally
follow the pattern of a classical contract. The rights and obligations of the
contracting parties are explicitly speciﬁed. The classical contract always fulﬁlls
its function when all of the causes of potential uncertainty can be completely
covered. But the increasing complexity of the conditions surrounding the market
exchange makes this more and more questionable. Reference is made to the
incompleteness of the classical type of contracts (Go¨bel 2002). This causes market
participants to lose faith in the functionality of classical contracts. The neoclassical
contract attempts to avoid this problem by no longer formulating the contingencies
themselves but only the way in which they should be dealt with. Arbitration
processes for handling conﬂicts between the contracting parties are speciﬁed.
Appropriate clauses can be found in comprehensive contracts between the
exchange partners in the capital goods sector. But once again the problem is that

76

F. Jacob

Table 3.2 Types of contracts in contract theory

Type of
contract

Principle

Problems

Classical contract

Neoclassical contract

Relational contract

Rights and obligations of the
contracting parties are
precisely formulated to cover
all contingencies
(cid:129) Completeness of contract
(cid:129) Cost of contracts (wording
and implementation)

Speciﬁcation of
arbitration process in
the event of dispute

(cid:129) Predictability of
dispute
(cid:129) Cost of contracts
(costs incurred to create
contract and for
arbitration)

The contracting
parties protect
themselves by
exchanging pledges
(cid:129) Constellation of
pledges
(cid:129) Effectiveness of
pledges

this type of contract also remains incomplete. Relational contracts forgo completely
an explicit wording and implicitly bind the parties to one another. This usually
occurs by exchanging pledges. A pledge received by one of the two exchange
partners protects from opportunistic behavior on the part of the other partner.
Pledges can be exchanged formally, e.g. as a security guarantee. In this case a
third party—frequently a ﬁnancial institution—formally agrees to provide a sum of
money or some other service when requested to do so by the holder of the
guarantee. The holder can then take advantage of the guarantee when he considers
previously agreed stipulations to have not been fulﬁlled. So the guarantee reduces
the behavioral uncertainty that the holder could feel towards the bearer of the
guarantee. However, formal guarantees to ensure that business relationships func-
tion properly tend to be uncommon in actual practice. But relational contracts can
come about more informally. The so-called shadow of the future, with its
implications for the development of business relationships, will be introduced
here as a variation of relational contracts that is relevant to marketing purposes.

3.1.2.2 Business Relationships as Relational Contracts
To be able to explain how the “shadow of the future” functions as a determinant of
repeat purchasing behavior, the supplier advantage must be explained as the
counterpart to the customer beneﬁt in the market transaction. Figure 3.11 shows
this as a bar graph. It is apparent that the price is the element that links the customer
perspective and the supplier perspective. While for the customer in the exchange
the price represents the sacriﬁce to be made, for the supplier it is the incentive to
participate in the transaction. But both the supplier (S) and the competitor (C) have
to compare this price with the costs incurred to provide the service that is the object
of the exchange. If the price is higher than the costs, the result is a proﬁt. Over the
long term, the supplier with the greatest proﬁt has an advantage. So a positive
difference in one’s own proﬁt as compared to the proﬁt of the competitors is
considered a supplier advantage.

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

77

Supplier perspective

Profit
difference

Profit

e
c
i
r
p

 
,
s
t
s
o
C

Profit

)

C

(
 

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

S

(
 

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

C

(
 
s
t
s
o
C

)

S

(
 
s
t
s
o
C

Competitor (C)

Supplier (S)

Fig. 3.11 Supplier advantage in market exchange

Supplier perspective:

t
i
f

o
r

P

Opportunism 
profit

Opportunism
profit

)

S

(
 

e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

 
)

S

(
 
e
c
i
r
p
 
r
e

f
f

O

)

S

(
 
s
t
s
o
C

t
i
f

o
r
P

t
i
f

o
r

P

)

S

(
 
s
t
s
o
C

Time axis

t2

t1

)

S

(
 
e
c
i
)
r
S
p
 
(
r
 
e
s
t
f
s
f
O
o
C

Fig. 3.12 Shadow of the future. Source: Based on Jacob (2009)

The left side of the next illustration, Fig. 3.12, shows how the reduction in net
beneﬁt that the customer perceives as caused by uncertainty impacts an increase in
the supplier’s proﬁt. Price increases and reductions in performance due to opportu-
nistic actions harm the customer and can even beneﬁt the supplier. For the supplier,
price increases directly improve proﬁt. Reductions in performance indirectly
increase the supplier’s proﬁt, because he can save costs when efforts are reduced.
So in the short term, the supplier deﬁnitely has an incentive to act in an opportunis-
tic manner when he has ﬂexibility like that expressed in Example 5. After all, this

78

F. Jacob

would increase proﬁt and thus his leverage in the competition with other suppliers
in his industry.

But as shown on the right side of Fig. 3.12 the supplier can relieve the customer
of this uncertainty. This can succeed when the supplier can plausibly convey that
short-term opportunism is not worthwhile because it poses a threat to proﬁts from
future transactions with the same supplier. After all, when a customer has once been
disappointed by the supplier, it can hardly be expected that he will do business with
the same supplier in the future. If the customer shares this insight into the structure
of the supplier advantage, his remaining in a business relationship with the supplier
becomes a pledge and overcomes any perceived risk of opportunism. The risk of
losing future beneﬁts of a business relationship dampens the attractiveness of short-
term opportunistic behavior or short-term proﬁt gained from opportunism. In game
theory this principle is assigned the metaphor “shadow of the future (Axelrod
1987). So market transactions have to be properly prepared by the supplier by
conveying to the customer his own dependency and his interest in a long-term
relationship, as opposed to short-term beneﬁts from opportunistic behavior. These
efforts are apparent in the following practical example.

Example 8: Planning Tools for Software Consulting

For a long time now, the software company SAP has been cooperating
successfully with software consultants who adapt software systems to the
individual needs of the users. The largest German software consultant work-
ing with SAP is the Telekom subsidiary T-Systems. Upon announcement of
the adoption of a new planning tool for the SAP software conﬁguration, the
company T-Systems in a press release quotes an executive of the supplier
SAP:

“We are happy that, with the introduction of the ‘Run SAP’ method,
T-Systems is eager to expand its long-term business relationship with
SAP,” states Dr. Uwe Hommel, Executive Vice President of SAP AG.
“T-Systems is one of the ﬁrst SAP partners to introduce the concept of
continuous operational procedures—a concept provided by Run SAP—to
its application management services and hosting offers.”

In the example, both companies—supplier and customer—publicly express their
mutual interest in continuing the business relationship. The continued existence of
the business relationship is then more valuable than a short-term proﬁt gained from
opportunistic actions, particularly on the part of the supplier. Media reports clearly
indicate that both parties recognize this. A “shadow of the future” manifests itself.
Insights into these correlations and the awareness of the participants in the mutual-
ity lead to a decrease in uncertainty for the customer and thus to repeat purchasing
behavior.

So, repeat purchasing behavior itself is inherent to the repeat purchasing behav-
ior. This effect does not stem from the history of a business relationship but from its

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

79

potential future (Jacob 2002). This effect arises from the structure of the supplier
advantage and affects the customer beneﬁt.

3.2

The Business Relationship over Time

their special nature,

Because of
repeat purchasing behavior and business
relationships are temporal. However, we have thus far looked at them from a static
perspective. This means we have developed an understanding of why customers in
certain purchasing situations make a decision for the in-supplier and against the
out-supplier. This insight is essential to current market actions of a supplier. But it is
obvious that behavior should also be examined beyond the current purchasing
situation. After all, marketing management includes not only the present but also
a planning task that extends beyond. This planning task has to take into consider-
ation the history of a business relationship and show the way into the future. This is
what research on the life cycle of a business relationship deals with. It is also the
topic of the next section.

3.2.1 The Life Cycle of a Business Relationship According

to Dwyer et al.

The approach presented by Dwyer et al. (1987) is of fundamental signiﬁcance to
research on the life cycle of a business relationship. The approach should initially
be seen as an analogy to the product life cycle and explains the ideal type of time
sequence of a customer relationship (Stauss 2006). It differentiates between ﬁve
phases of a business relationship (Preß 1997). The cycle begins with an initiation
phase in which potential partners in a later business relationship get to know one
another. The customer becomes aware of a supplier and the products and services
offers, and then he deliberates entering into market transactions. For the supplier,
this phase is important to demonstrating his attractiveness to the customer. This
phase is followed by one of exploration, in which the potential partners look at the
possibilities of purchasing and of a stronger commitment to one another. At this
point, the force of the commitment remains relatively low though. The relationship
should be considered as not yet solidiﬁed. However, the foundation for expansion
of the cooperation between supplier and customer is established. This is the phase in
which bonding arises, whether of an economic nature or on the basis of trust and
commitment. Once these bonds have been consolidated, they can evolve—which,
in the case of bonding, leads to greater satisfaction. When the market partners
discern the value of the business relationship, the requirements for creating a
“shadow of the future” have been met. But every business relationship is suscepti-
ble to the threat of dissolution. The initiative to terminate the relationship usually
comes solely from the customer. The termination phase is always characterized by
the fact that the requirements for the emergence of repeat purchasing behavior

80

Becoming 
familiar

Exploration

Expansion

Loyalty

Dissolution

F. Jacob

(cid:129) Demonstrating 

(cid:129) Performance 

own 
attractiveness

(cid:129) Planning 
individual 
transactions

of first 
transaction

(cid:129) Evaluation of 

benefits, 
chances and 
risks 

(cid:129) Performance 
of additional 
transactions
Increase in 
mutual 
dependency

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

(cid:129) High mutual 
satisfaction
Institutionaliza
tion of 
processes

(cid:129) (usually one-

sided) 
termination of 
business 
relationship

Fig. 3.13 Life cycle of a business relationship. Source: Based on Dwyer et al. (1987)

described in previous sections have fundamentally changed. Figure 3.13 offers an
overview of the life cycle of a business relationship.

It should be noted that the course of a business relationship as shown in the
illustration is the ideal. Practical market applications can deviate from this pattern
at any point. This is why the deterministic character of the phase sequence shown is
often criticized (Stauss 2006). It is also important to mention that the approach
offers no assertion on the duration of a single phase; in actual practice, this is
strongly dependent on the speciﬁc situation. Despite these constraints, the life cycle
of a business relationship provides the foundation for derivation of speciﬁc ﬁelds of
business relationship management (Diller 2005). These ﬁelds arise from the central
challenges that the supplier faces in the various phases of a cycle.

3.2.2 Dynamic Consideration of the Life Cycle of a Business

Relationship

Criticism of the deterministic character of the traditional model of the life cycle of a
business relationship can be countered by refraining from the idea of a rigid
sequence of the individual phases. So business relationships are characterized by
an undecided course. Stauss (2006) to some extent presents a point of view in which
he introduces to the stated phases of the life cycle of a business relationship a risk
phase that can occur repeatedly at any time. For such a risk to be relevant, the
customer must be considering terminating the relationship. So migration prevention
management and customer recovery management are recommended as permanent
tasks of business relationship management.

There are, however, more resolute approaches to considering the indecision of
the course of business relationships; these refrain completely from claiming a phase
sequence. These can be seen as a strategy in which there is differentiation only
between an in-supplier and an out-supplier situation in a business relationship
(Brown 1995). The in-supplier situation is distinguished by a business relationship
between the customer and the focal supplier. In the out-supplier situation, the
customer maintains a business relationship with one of the supplier’s competitors.
It was proven empirically that the customer’s purchase behavior is decidedly

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

81

different in both situations. The in-supplier situation in principle supports the
(positive) impact of a company’s (good) reputation and/or a (positive) attitude
regarding the offer extended by the business relationship partner. The correct
term for this is moderator effect. So the in-supplier situation warrants e.g. efforts
on the part of the supplier to establish good personal relationships between the sales
personnel and the customer’s personnel participating in procurement decisions. In
the out-supplier situation, on the other hand, the customer tends to be inﬂuenced by
stereotypes when forming his attitude. There is e.g. the risk that the customer
associates the out-supplier’s employees with the (usually negative) image of a
“typical salesperson,” which in turn has a detrimental impact on the attitude
towards the out-supplier’s offering. So the out-supplier should attempt to distract
from such stereotypes.

The results of a study by Eggert et al. (2006) can be interpreted similarly. The
object of the study was the way in which the customer’s perception of a business
partner’s contribution to value creation for the customer changes over the course of
a business relationship. The results indicate that, at the beginning of business
relationships, the value contributed through improvement of procurement processes
is usually paramount. Over time this becomes less and less an issue in a business
relationship and is replaced by the perception of value-adding contributions in the
production process. So it seems apparent that in-supplier marketing should focus on
value-adding contributions to production processes, while out-supplier marketing
should emphasize value-adding contributions to procurement processes instead.

3.3

Summary

This chapter has dealt with the determinants of purchase behavior in business
relationships. It is characterized by repeat purchasing. Indicators of repeat purchas-
ing behavior can be found in the structure of the customer beneﬁt as well as in the
structure of the supplier advantage. Regarding the customer beneﬁt, it must be
determined whether or not there are any relevant bonding effects. Repeat purchas-
ing behavior without the inﬂuence of customer bonding can be attributed to the core
service of an offer or to the ancillary services. Customer relationship management
is the collective term for approaches that can precipitate repeat purchasing behavior
by conscious conﬁguration of ancillary services. Bonding can have economic or
psychological roots. Economic commitment can be explained by the effect of
speciﬁc resources in the customer’s possession or by the effect of satisfaction in
an environment of uncertainty. Psychological determinants of bonding and thus of
repeat purchasing are trust and commitment, whereby the former is an expectation
and the latter an intended action. The structure of the supplier advantage helps to
explain repeat purchasing behavior when, seen from the perspective of a current
purchase decision making situation, not only the past but also the future is taken
into consideration. As “shadows of the future,” business relationships represent
relational contracts and are thus capable of reducing the perceived behavioral
uncertainty of the parties to a business relationship. Finally, we expanded the

82

F. Jacob

explanation of repeat purchasing from the consideration of a point in time to the
consideration of a time period. The central concept here is the life cycle of a
business relationship in its tradition or in a dynamic form.

Appendix

Exercises

1. What are the different levels of an exchange that can be considered the source
of repeat purchasing behavior in business relationships? Which repeat purchas-
ing behavior is more resistant to competition?

2. Explain the term “Customer Relationship Management” (CRM) and clarify its
effect as an ancillary service on the customer beneﬁt. What are the different
dimensions of CRM?

3. Explain how speciﬁcity and satisfaction can act as switching barriers in busi-

ness relationships!

4. Deﬁne the term satisfaction. Which factors impact the occurrence of satisfac-

tion in business relationships?

5. What does the conﬁrmation/disconﬁrmation paradigm imply?
6. Name and explain the central components and correlations of the GAP model

according to Zeithaml et al. (1988)!

7. What are the essential differences between repeat purchasing behavior based
on satisfaction and speciﬁc resources and repeat purchasing behavior based on
core and ancillary services?

8. How is trust established in business relationships?
9. Which types of contracts do you know about? What are the main differences

between the various types of contracts?

10. Explain the phases that business relationships can go through. What are the

characteristics of the phases?

11. Which approaches to dynamic consideration of business relationships do you

know?

References

Axelrod, R. (1987). Die Evolution der Kooperation (W. Raub & T. Voss, Trans.). Mu¨nchen: Basic

Books, Inc.

Blache, R., Damiani, E., Fru¨hling, J. M., & Kraus, H.-J. (2005). Aktives kundenbeziehungs-
management der Deutschen Bank. In M. Bruhn & C. Homburg (Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbin-
dungsmanagement (5th ed., pp. 723–742). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Bliemel, F., & Eggert, A. (1998). Kundenbindung. Marketing—Zeitschrift f€ur Forschung und

Praxis, 20(1), 37–46.

Blomqvist, K. (1997). The many faces of trust. Scandinavian Journal of Management, 13(3),

271–286. doi:10.1016/S0956-5221(97)84644-1.

3 Repeat Purchasing in Business Relationships

83

Brown, S. P. (1995). The moderating effects of insupplier/outsupplier status on organizational
buyer attitudes. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 23(3), 170–181. doi:10.1177/
0092070395233002.

Bruhn, M.

(2001). Relationship Marketing—Das Management von Kundenbeziehungen.

Mu¨nchen: Vahlen.

Crosby, L. A., Evans, K. R., & Cowles, D. (1990). Relationship quality in services selling: An
interpersonal inﬂuence perspective. Journal of Marketing, 54(3), 68–81. doi:10.2307/1251817.
Diller, H. (1996). Kundenbindung als Marketingziel. Marketing—Zeitschrift f€ur Forschung und

Praxis, 18(2), 81–94.

Diller, H.

(2005). Kundenwirtschaft—Schlu¨sselaufgabe fu¨r erfolgreiche Marktbearbeitung.
Arbeitspapier Nr. 127 des Lehrstuhls f€ur Marketing der Universit€at Erlangen-N€urnberg,
Nu¨rnberg.

Diller, H. (2007). Grundprinzipien des Marketing (2nd ed.). Nu¨rnberg: WiGIM.
Dittrich, S. (2000). Kundenbindung als Kernaufgabe im Marketing: Kundenpotentiale langfristig

ausscho¨pfen. St. Gallen: Verlag Thexis.

Dwyer, F. R., Schurr, P. H., & Oh, S. (1987). Developing buyer–seller relationships. Journal of

Marketing, 51(2), 11–27. doi:10.2307/1251126.

Eggert, A., Ulaga, W., & Schultz, F. (2006). Value creation in the relationship life cycle: A quasi-
Industrial Marketing Management, 35(1), 20–27. doi:10.1016/j.

longitudinal analysis.
indmarman.2005.07.003.

Eisena¨cher, H.

(2005).

durch
Kundenbindung. In M. Bruhn & C. Homburg (Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement
(5th ed., pp. 743–764). Wiesbaden: Gabler Verlag.

Fallstudie Lufthansa—Proﬁtable Kundenbeziehungen

Foscht, T., & Swoboda, B. (2004). K€auferverhalten. Wiesbaden.
Go¨bel, E.

(2002). Neue Institutioneno¨konomik: Konzeptionen und betriebswirtschaftliche

Gu¨nter, B. (1979). Die Referenzanlage als Marketing-Instrument. Zeitschrift

f€ur betriebs-

Anwendungen. Stuttgart: Lucius & Lucius.

wirtschaftliche Forschung, 31, 145–151.

Hentschel, B. (1990). Die Messung wahrgenommener Dienstleistungsqualita¨t mit SERVQUAL.

Marketing–Zeitschrift f€ur Forschung und Praxis, 12(4), 230–240.

Hippner, H., Martin, S., & Wilde, K. (2001). Customer relationship management. Wirtschaftswis-

senschaftliches Studium, 31(8), 417–422.

Hippner, H., & Wilde, K. (2005). Informationstechnologische Grundlagen der Kundenbindung. In
(5th ed.,

M. Bruhn & C. Homburg (Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement
pp. 463–499). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Homburg, C., & Krohmer, H. (2003). Marketingmanagement (3rd ed.). Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Jacob, F. (2002). Gesch€aftsbeziehungen und die Institutionen des marktlichen Austauschs:

Deutscher Universita¨tsverlag.

Jacob, F. (2009). Marketing–Eine Einf€uhrung f€ur das Master-Studium. Stuttgart.
Kaiser, M. O. (2005). Erfolgsfaktor Kundenzufriedenheit: Dimensionen und Messmo¨glichkeiten

(2nd ed.). Berlin: Schmidt Erich Verlag.

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Jacob, F. (2006). Grundlagen der Gestaltung des Leistungsprogramms. In
und
Instrumente des Business-to-Business-Marketing (2nd ed.,

Jacob, & A. So¨llner

M. Kleinaltenkamp, W. Plinke, F.
Produktmanagement—Die
pp. 3–82). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

(Eds.), Markt-

Kotler, P., & Bliemel, F. (2001). Marketing-Management (5th ed.). Stuttgart.
Krafft, M. (1999). Der Kunde im Fokus—Kundenna¨he, Kundenzufriedenheit Kundenbindung-

und Kundenwert? Die Betriebswirtschaft, 59(4), 511–530.

Linke, R. (2006). Kundenbindung durch speziﬁsche Investition. Wiesbaden.
Macaulay, S. (1963). Non-contractual relations in business. American Sociological Review, 28(1),

55–67.

Macneil, I. R. (1978). Contracts—Adjustment of long-term economic relations under classical,

neoclassical, and relational law. Northwestern University Law Review, 72, 854–907.

84

F. Jacob

Meffert, H. (2000). Marketing (9 Auﬂth ed.). Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Meffert, H. (2005). Kundenbindung als Element moderner Wettbewerbsstrategien. In M. Bruhn &
(5th ed., pp. 145–166).

C. Homburg (Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement
Wiesbaden.

Moorman, C., Zaltman, G., & Deshpande, R. (1992). Relationships between providers and users of
market research: The dynamics of trust within and between organizations. Journal of Market-
ing Research (JMR), 29(3), 314–328.

Osgood, C. (1959). Suggestions for winning the real war with communism. Journal of Conﬂict

Petermann, F. (1996). Psychologie des Vertrauens. Go¨ttingen: Hogrefe, Verlag fu¨r Psychologie.
Plinke, W. (1991). Investitionsgu¨termarketing. Marketing—Zeitschrift f€ur Forschung und Praxis,

Resolution, 3(4), 295–325.

13(3), 172–177.

Plinke, W. (1997). Grundlagen des Gescha¨ftsbeziehungsmanagements. In M. Kleinaltenkamp &

W. Plinke (Eds.), Gesch€aftsbeziehungsmanagement (pp. 1–62). Berlin: Springer.

Plinke, W. (2000). Grundlagen des Marktprozesses. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke (Eds.),
Technischer Vertrieb—Die Grundlagen des Business-to-Business Marketing (Vol. 2,
pp. 3–98). Berlin: Springer.

Plo¨tner, O. (1995). Das Vertrauen des Kunden, Relevanz, Aufbau und Steuerung auf industriellen

M€arkten. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Plo¨tner, O., & Jacob, F.

In
M. Kleinaltenkamp, S. Fließ, & F. Jacob (Eds.), Customer Integration–von der Kundenor-
ientierung zur Kundenintegration (pp. 105–119). Wiesbaden.

Integration und Kundenvertrauen.

(1996). Customer

Preß, B. (1997). Kaufverhalten in Gescha¨ftsbeziehungen. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke

(Eds.), Gesch€aftsbeziehungsmanagement (pp. 63–110). Berlin: Springer.

Pritzl, R., & Lauer, A. (2003). Kundenbindung und Loyalita¨tsmanagement. In D. Fink (Ed.),

Management Consulting Fieldbook (2nd ed., pp. 333–368). Mu¨nchen.

Reichheld, F. F. (1993). Loyalty-based management. Harvard Business Review, 71(2), 64–73.
Schoch, R. (1969). Der Verkaufsvorgang als sozialer Interaktionsprozess. Winterthur: Verlag

Hans Schellenberg.

So¨llner, A. (1993). Commitment in Gesch€aftsbeziehungen. Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Stauss, B. (1991). Kundendienstqualita¨t als Erfolgsfaktor im Wettbewerb. Thexis, 8(2), 47–51.
Stauss, B. (2006). Grundlagen und Phasen der Kundenbeziehung—Der Kundenbeziehungszyklus.
In H. Hippner & K. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM, Konzepte und Gestaltung (2nd ed.,
pp. 422–442). Wiesbaden.

Steffenhagen, H. (2004). Marketing (5th ed.). Stuttgart.
Weiber, R., & Adler, J. (2003). Der Wechsel von Gescha¨ftsbeziehungen beim Kauf von
Nutzungsgu¨tern—Das Beispiel der Telekommunikation. In M. Rese, A. So¨llner & P. Utzig
(Eds.), Relationship Marketing (pp. 71–103). Berlin et al.

Weinberg, P., & Terlutter, R. (2005). Verhaltenswissenschaftliche Aspekte der Kundenbindung. In
M. Bruhn & C. Homburg (Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement (5th ed., pp. 41–65).
Wiesbaden.

Williamson, O. (1990). Die o¨konomische Institution des Kapitalismus—Unternehmen, M€arkte,

Kooperationen. Tu¨bingen.

Williamson, O. E. (1979). Transaction-cost economics: The Governance of contractual relations.

Journal of Law & Economics, 22(2), 233–261. doi:10.1086/466942.

Zeithaml, V., Berry, L., & Parasuraman, A. (1988). Communication and control process in the

delivery of service quality. Journal of Marketing, 52(2), 35–48.

Customer Value and Customer Selection

4

Michael Kleinaltenkamp

4.1

Fundamentals of Customer Evaluation

The establishment and cultivation of business relationships often require substantial
resources. Every company that practices business relationship management asks
itself if these investments are worthwhile, if the effort and expense required are
balanced by revenues that are at least as high (Gupta and Lehmann 2005). The latter
can be earned by the customer’s company itself or just as well—at least partially—
by other companies, provided that their purchase decisions are inﬂuenced by the
behavior of the customer in which the supplier’s investment was made. In light of
this, the choice and selection of such “important” customers represents a major part
of business relationship management.

So it comes as no surprise that a study commissioned by the task force “Devel-
opment, Design, Sales” of the Verein Deutscher Ingenieure (VDI, Society of
German Engineers) indicated that 70 % of those surveyed agreed with the statement
that it is of strategic importance to better know the earning rate of the individual
customer relationships (Krafft and Albers 1997; Krafft 1999). On the other hand, it
is often lamented that customer evaluation is performed only superﬁcially or on the
basis of less meaningful criteria, such as customers’ sales volume. Practical experi-
ence often conﬁrms that the customers with the highest revenues are not exactly
those who contribute most to the supplier’s success. In many companies, the rule of
thumb is that 80 % of sales can be attributed to 20 % of customers. But the 20 %
generally do not generate 80 % of the contribution margin or even of the proﬁt. It is
often the relationships to the customers generating the most revenue that, upon
closer examination, have to be classiﬁed as unproﬁtable (Plinke 1997).

So what determines a customer’s value? Which criteria should or can be applied
to determine the value of a single customer or a group of customers? The answers to

M. Kleinaltenkamp (*)
School of Business & Economics, Freie Universita¨t Berlin, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: michael.kleinaltenkamp@fu-berlin.de

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5_4

85

86

M. Kleinaltenkamp

Goals

Monetary

Non-monetary

Economic

Pre-economic

Non-economic

Sales

(cid:129)
(cid:129) Market share
(cid:129)
Productivity
(cid:129) Degree of utilization
(cid:129) …

(cid:129)
(cid:129)
(cid:129)
(cid:129)

(cid:129)

Satisfaction
Customer loyalty
Reference potential
Information
potential
Cross-selling
potential

(cid:129) …

(cid:129)
(cid:129)

(cid:129)
(cid:129)

(cid:129)

Striving for power
Striving for 
independence
Political influence
Environmental 
consciousness
Responsibility 
consciousness

(cid:129) …

Monetizable

Non-monetizable

Fig. 4.1 General classiﬁcation of goals for marketing purposes. Source: Based on Cornelsen
(2000)

these questions are ultimately a factor of the goals that a company pursues with the
business relationship management activities.

Potential goals are shown in Fig. 4.1—based on Krafft (1999) and Cornelsen
(2000). They are classiﬁed ﬁrst by whether the respective goals are of a monetary or
non-monetary nature. The non-monetary objectives are further divided into those
that can in principle be monetized and those that cannot. The ﬁrst group includes all
economic and pre-economic variables, while non-economic goals such as striving
for power or independence can usually not be assigned a monetary value.
Depending on the goals of a company’s business relationship management
activities, the value of an individual customer or a group of customers can be
different, so other aspects must be considered or combined to assess the customer’s
value.

When this view is pursued, the customer value can be generally deﬁned as a gage
of the direct and indirect contributions of a customer towards achieving the
supplier’s goals. So it represents the economic signiﬁcance of a customer or
group of customers for a supplier company (Cornelsen 2000).

Such a broad deﬁnition of the term customer value ultimately encompasses all
monetary and non-monetary contributions of a customer that promote the supplier’s
success. To determine this value, it must be decided which speciﬁc criteria should
be applied and whether single aspects or combinations of aspects should be

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

87

Table 4.1 Classification of customer value concept

Distinguishing criterion

Criteria

Object of evaluation
Data base
Number of evaluation criteria
Monetization of evaluation criteria
Time period

Single customers
Quantitative
One-dimensional
Monetary
Single period/static

Groups of customers
Qualitative
Multi-dimensional
Non-monetary
Multiple periods/dynamic

Source: Based on Reinecke and Keller (2006)

considered. Table 4.1 offers an overview of various ways in which parameters for
determining a customer’s value can be differentiated. As the table shows, the value
can refer to a single customer or a group of customers. It can be based on quantita-
tive or qualitative data, include monetary or non-monetary aspects, and it can be
static (for a single period) or dynamic (for multiple periods). Also, a customer
evaluation concept can be sustained by one of these criteria or by several
(one-dimensional vs. multi-dimensional).

As the name says, one-dimensional concepts for determining the customer value
apply only a single criterion as the evaluation measure. Multi-dimensional models,
on the other hand, attempt to better portray the complexity of the various possible
contributions a customer can make to the value by integrating different parameters
(Eggert 2006). This, however, creates special method-related problems: differently
dimensioned values have to be combined to one comprehensive parameter.

The following section will ﬁrst explain individual dimensions of customer
evaluation, then go on to point out approaches that comprise the application of
various criteria. Economic-quantitative gages are introduced ﬁrst, then qualitative
factors.

4.2

Criteria for Determining Customer Value

4.2.1 Economic-quantitative Gages of Customer Value

Table 4.2 summarizes the economic-quantitative parameters most important to the
business-to-business sector as well as the hypotheses on which they are based in
view of their impact on the customer value.

(revenue analysis)

4.2.1.1 Revenue Analysis
The determination of the customer value based on the revenue generated with the
customer
the most common analysis method
(Sect. 4.2.3). The customer value is calculated simply as the total of all amounts
invoiced to a customer over a period—typically one year. When doing this, the
customer’s share of total revenue for the period is often determined, meaning the
share of revenue generated by a customer. The customers are then frequently

remains

88

M. Kleinaltenkamp

Table 4.2 Economic gages of customer relevance

Calculation

Premise

Total of the contributions invoiced
to the customer per period

Name

Revenue

Customer’s share
of revenue

Revenue generated by this
customer per period/total company
revenue per period

Supplier’s share of
deliveries

Contribution
margin

Customer’s share
of contribution
margin
Customer’s
contribution
margin position
(importance)
Cash ﬂow

Revenue generated by this
customer per period/customer’s
total purchases in a product
category

Total revenue per period/total
direct costs per period of all
product-related costs, order-
related costs and costs related
directly to the customer

Customer’s contribution margin
per period/total contribution
margin per period
Customer’s contribution margin
per period/total contribution
margin per period

Revenue inﬂow from this customer
per period/revenue outﬂow for this
customer per period

Customer’s share
of cash ﬂow

Customer’s cash ﬂow per period/
total cash ﬂow per period

Capacity
utilization

Quantity supplied per period/total
capacity per period

The greater the revenue generated
by this customer, the greater is the
relevance of the customer
The greater the share of revenue
generated by this customer, the
greater is his relevance for the
supplier
The greater the share of deliveries,
the greater is the relevance of the
supplier for the customer. These
can provide indicators for possible
ways to inﬂuence the customer
The greater the contribution
margin, the greater are the
resources that this customer
provides to cover costs that this
customer produces, and the greater
is the relevance of this customer
The greater the share of the
contribution margin, the greater is
the customer’s relevance
The better the contribution margin
position, the (relatively) greater is
the relevance of the customer

In the event of objectives geared
towards liquidity: the greater the
cash ﬂow, the greater is the
relevance of the customer
The greater the share of the cash
ﬂow, the greater is the customer’s
relevance
The greater and more consistent
the capacity utilization, the greater
is the customer’s relevance for
setting objectives related to
production planning with cost
optimization

Source: Based on Plinke (1997)

classiﬁed as A, B or C customers based on these values. Figure 4.2 illustrates the
results of such a so-called ABC analysis.

The x-axis of a coordinate system indicates the cumulative number of customers,
and the y-axis shows the cumulative share of revenue generated by the respective
customers. In the sample case depicted in Fig. 4.2, 85 % of the revenue is generated
by 20 % of the customers. In this sense they represent the best customers—the A
customers. The next 25 % of the customers generates another 10 % of revenue.

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

89

Cumulative share 
of revenue (%)

100

95

85

A 

customer

C 

customer

B customer

20

45

100

Cumulative share of 
customer base (%)      

Fig. 4.2 Typical distribution of a company’s revenue amongst A, B and C customers

They are classiﬁed as B customers. The remaining 5 % of revenue comes from 65 %
of the customers. These are the company’s C customers.

When the curve resulting from this type of analysis moves farther to the left, it
means that the share of revenue generated by one or a few A customers is
increasing. This means that when the customer or customers terminate the business
relationship, the subsequent decline in the supplier’s revenue cannot be easily
offset.

The fact that this method is common in business practice is due primarily to the
ease with which the method can be applied as well as to the relative simplicity of
procuring information (Cornelsen 2000). All of the information required can
normally be obtained without much effort from the company’s accounting depart-
ment. However, it should be kept in mind that, when analyzing revenue—just as
with other criteria mentioned here (Table 4.2)—usually only individual periods are
examined. Random events like overdue payments, invoicing of single large orders
or seasonal ﬂuctuations can have a critical effect on the analysis. Also, the degree of
a business relationship’s maturity is not taken into consideration, so companies are
evaluated in the same manner, regardless of the different maturity phases
(Cornelsen 2000). The customer’s use of resources is also not considered when
only the revenue is analyzed. So looking at only the revenue to evaluate a customer

90

M. Kleinaltenkamp

does not seem adequate: the high revenue generated by a customer may sometimes
be “expensive”—meaning that excessive costs for this speciﬁc customer were
incurred.

4.2.1.2 Calculation of Customer Contribution Margin
One way to overcome the stated deﬁcits of customer evaluation based solely on
revenue is the calculation of the customer contribution margin. This method
deducts the costs incurred by the customer, meaning the direct costs of the speciﬁc
customer relationship, from the revenue generated by business with that customer
(Rese 2006). The basic structure of such a calculation of customer contribution
margin is shown in Fig. 4.3.

To be able to calculate the contribution margin in this way, it is essential that the
data is organized properly. The relevant costs and revenue must be able to be clearly
attributed to the individual customer (Ko¨hler 2008). This is generally not a problem
for the revenue. With proper accounting practices, the revenue generated by each
customer is clear or can be easily discerned. The costs that can be attributed to
individual customers are more difﬁcult to allocate though. The reason for this is that
particularly costs incurred for customer service—like those deducted from contri-
bution margin II in Fig. 4.3—are in many cases posted as sales and administrative
expenses. The result is that, in regard to the respective customer relationship, they
are treated not as direct but as overhead costs.

Gross customer revenue per period

-

=
-

=
-

=
-

-

=

Decrease in revenue

Net customer revenue per period
Costs of products purchased by customer
(variable piece costs according to product calculation, multiplied
by purchase quantities)

Customer contribution margin I
Order costs directly attributed to customer
(e.g. devices, shipping costs)

Customer contribution margin II
Visit costs directly attributed to customer
(e.g. costs incurred to travel to customer)
Other customer related direct costs per period
(e.g. salary of responsible key account manager;
engineering aids; costs of mailings; interest on accounts 
for customers at the level of trade: Advertising cost subsidies, 
listing fees and similar payments)

receivable; 

Customer contribution margin III

Fig. 4.3 Basic structure of calculation of customer contribution margin. Source: Based on Ko¨hler
(2008)

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

91

This is not detrimental to the calculation of customer value, as long as there are
no vast differences between customers and the amounts to be considered are not
noteworthy. But if this is the case, such a calculation will lead to distortion of the
customer contribution margins, because the customer relationships that incur (sig-
niﬁcantly) higher costs than the other appear in a more positive light, while all of
the others appear more negative than they are.

The question arises whether in such cases the respective customer-speciﬁc costs,
instead of being recorded as overhead, should be considered direct costs and billed
to the customer. These are essentially “quasi overhead”, meaning customer-related
direct costs treated as overhead for the company’s accounting purposes. They could
actually be assigned to their source—in this case, individual customers. This is not
done though, because the effort required to separately compile and allocate them
tends to be avoided. As in all such cases, this decision should generally be made by
weighing the costs and beneﬁts. So the (potential) beneﬁt of compiling the costs of a
business relationship is opposed by the additional costs incurred for their separate
recording and allocation (Rese 2006). Since it is particularly difﬁcult to measure the
stated beneﬁt effect beforehand, a pragmatic way to solve this problem is to make
random evaluations. If it turns out that there are great differences in the assessments
of the individual customer relationships as compared to the results based on the
allocation of overhead, converting to another method should be seriously consid-
ered. If this is not the case, the less precise but exact enough values can continue to
be used.

A similar problem arises with economies of scope on the revenue side with
calculation of the cost margin. They can exist on the one hand for a certain time
period for the same customer relationship (1.) and on the other hand for a certain
point in time in regard to relationships with several different customers (2.)
(Engelhardt 1976).

1. In this case, calculation of the customer contribution margin typically considers
the past and then only a single period thereof. It happens again and again in a
period that a transaction with the customer in the course of a so-called “strategic
project” occurs at conditions which are particularly beneﬁcial to the customer.
The intention is that the customer will become loyal to the supplier and the
consequence will be additional business that will at least offset the expenses of
the original transaction. When this is the case, the contribution margin of the
respective order and thus the contribution margin for the period for this cus-
tomer, which includes all of the project contribution margins of the respective
period, is reduced. But the future revenue induced by the very favorable
conditions are not recorded in the respective period, with the consequence that
the respective customer contribution margin is actually calculated as too low.
Conversely, the future customer contribution margins for the customer and
period are assessed too high, because they are at least partially the result of
diminished revenue granted the customer. So as long as planned contribution
margins are not used for calculation purposes, the respective economies of scope
are completely disregarded. However, it would be preferable to consider them in

92

M. Kleinaltenkamp

regard to the goals and intentions of business relationship management, because
in addition to the evaluation of earlier procedures, it is also and not least about
planning and control of business relationship management future activities
relating to individual customers.

2. When the relevant revenue is calculated, only the amounts invoiced to the
customer are considered. For example, revenue resulting from the respective
customer having made a recommendation to another customer is not included in
the calculation, although it can be attributed to the respective customer. This
presents a problem analog to recording the direct costs attributed to an individual
customer relationship. The revenue treated as individual revenue is actually
“overhead” revenue because it can be attributed to a common source: the
behavior of a certain customer. Allocating them to multiple customer
relationships is fundamentally a correct allocation to the source, so the order
and customer contribution margins calculated this way at least partially reﬂect
an incorrect image.

The problems described here can be solved with the implementation of a
so-called pool calculation—which is not often applied in actual practice. With
this method, the portion of the reduction in the contribution margin accepted in
anticipation of future revenue with the same customer (case 1) or in anticipation of
additional revenue with other customers (case 2) does not ﬂow into the calculation
of the customer contribution margin but is posted in a separate pool. This negative
value represents the investment in the respective customer relationships (case 1) or
in the relationships with other customers (case 2). Whether or not this was worth-
while should be apparent when the hoped for additional revenue is generated either
by the same customer or by the other customers. But since at least part of the
revenue can be attributed to the revenue reductions previously accepted to gain the
business, part of the contribution margins achieved with the respective orders
should not be assigned to the margins but be offset against the original investment,
which was allocated to the pool. Practically speaking, this would mean that some of
the order contribution margin would be credited to the respective pool—such as a
certain percentage of the contribution margin over a certain time span. If the value
that was originally negative would be at least offset by the contribution margin, it
would be an indication that the investment was worthwhile and the company was
correct in its assessment of the customer behavior. If this were not the case, it would
be a clear signal that the respective presumptions and expectations were wrong;
these ﬁndings could be used later.

However precisely a customer contribution is calculated, it can be used for an
interesting analysis of the value of customer relationships when the revenue and the
contribution margin of each customer are plotted on a two-dimensional graph.
Figure 4.4 shows an example of this. To be able to reach further conclusions, the
average revenue of all customers as well as the respective average contribution
margin must be calculated. If lines are drawn at a 90
angle from both the x-axis and



4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

93

Contribution 
margin

15

10

n
i
g
r
a
m

 

n
o
i
t
u
b
i
r
t
n
o
C

-
 

Ø

5

= Revenue / contribution 
margin of a customer

50

100

150

200

250

Ø - Revenue

Revenue

Fig. 4.4 Combined revenue/contribution margin analysis. Source: Based on Plinke (1997)

the y-axis, the intersection of the two lines is the point at which a customer would be
plotted were the average revenue and the average contribution margin achieved.
The line running from the zero point through this point thus represents all points at
which precisely the average contribution margin is achieved when the respective
revenues are met per revenue unit. All of the customers represented by the points
below the lines are considered “bad” customers in this regard, because their
contribution margins achieved per revenue unit are below average. It is the exact
opposite for the points above the lines.

Interesting insights and questions arise from such an analysis: Why are the
respective values so good for some customers and so bad for others? Do the “bad
customers” primarily buy products with low product contribution margins? Do they
always manage to get prices that are good for them? Is the cost of taking care of
them higher than that of taking care of other customers? Which measures can be
developed to improve the relevant values? etc.

4.2.1.3 Customer Lifetime Value
An approach that can solve at least some of the problems caused by applying the
customer contribution margin is the use of the Customer Lifetime Value (CLV).
The basic idea is to look at a business relationship as an investment, which can then
be accordingly evaluated with investment analysis methods. The CLV essentially
expresses nothing more than the total of all (discounted) payments received and

94

M. Kleinaltenkamp

payments made over the lifetime of the business relationship (cash ﬂows) (Berger
and Nasr 1998). The CLV can be determined in three different ways:

The CLV approach is generally a calculation method that applies the principles
of dynamic investment analysis to customer relationships. There are two funda-
mental calculation methods: calculation of the potential CLV and calculation of the
present CLV. The only difference between the two methods is the reference time.

1. To calculate the potential (customer lifetime) value the cash ﬂows are added
together without any modiﬁcations, e.g. undiscounted. The basic structure of the
process is the same as that of the calculation of the customer contribution
margin. The customer value determined in this way indicates the potential proﬁt
that can be made with a customer over the course of the period examined.

2. The present (customer lifetime) value is determined applying the principles of
dynamic investment appraisal, which assumes that future payments are worth
less than present payments. So future payments are discounted at a certain
interest rate. The result of such a calculation is the net present value of all—
considered—cash ﬂows of a business relationship with a customer. The present
value represents the CLV in its own sense and is the most common calculation
method.

3. Finally, a retention rate can be included in the CLV. It indicates the probability
that can be anticipated with the relevant future payments during the period in
question. It can basically be any value between 0 (¼termination of relationship)
and 1 (¼secure continuation of relationship). So the resulting customer lifetime
value with the retention rate is the expected value of the future payments made
and payments received in a business relationship.

The equation in Fig. 4.5 shows how to calculate the CLV in its own sense,

meaning the net present value of a business relationship.

Speciﬁc determination of the CLV is generally faced with the following

challenges:

NPV

=

t
t

å =
=

n
0

te
(
1

-

+

ta
ti
)

e

=

0

a

-

+

0

e
1
(
1

-

+

a
1
i
)

+

e
2
(
1

a

-

2
2

i
)

+

++

...

ne
(
1

-

+

na
ni
)

te
ta

= (Anticipated) payments into the business relationship in period t

= (Anticipated) payments out of the business relationship in period t

i = Discount rate for discounting to a uniform reference time

t... = Period (t = 0, 1, 2, …, n)

n = Duration of business relationship

Fig. 4.5 Calculation of net present value of a business relationship. Source: Based on Helm and
Gu¨nter (2006)

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

95

1. First the relevant cash ﬂows must be attributed causally to the customer,
following the procedure for determining the customer contribution margin. In
practice, problems with the implementation can occur because not all items can
be precisely assigned. So often only the customer’s direct amounts ﬂow into the
calculation (Rudolf-Sipo¨tz 2001).

2. The second challenge is that the time frame for the examination must be
speciﬁed, meaning how many periods ﬂow into the calculation. One way to do
this is to use the average duration of a company’s business relationships (Helm
and Gu¨nter 2006). But this can be a problem when the relationships extend over
many years—which is not unusual. Then very high values would have to be
included in the examination, with the consequence that payments made and
payments received far into the future would also have to be considered. But since
it gets more and more difﬁcult to estimate such amounts the farther away they
are, the validity of the examination would suffer.

Another method is to use as the consideration period the duration that the
company typically uses as a planning horizon for strategic decisions. It is
different in each branch or company, but three, ﬁve and ten years are common.
In this way the evaluation and the management of business relationships would
be synchronized with the company’s strategic planning.

3. The third challenge is that an interest rate at which the cash ﬂows are discounted
must be determined. Different procedures can be chosen for this purpose. An
approach pursuant to the objectives of business relationship management is to
take the rate for the average cost of capital incurred by a company (Weighted
Average Cost of Capital [WACC]). These are the costs that the company has for
ﬁnancing its activities with its own as well as borrowed capital (Kruschwitz
2000). Sometimes payments into the pension reserves are also taken into con-
sideration; they can also be seen as costs incurred for business operation. So
when a customer’s CLV is exactly zero, the amount generated is precisely the
amount needed to satisfy the claims of all of the company’s investors resulting
from ﬁnancing of the respective customer activities. This means that customers
with a negative CLV are those who reduce the company’s value because the
business performed with them does not cover the capital costs incurred for the
transactions. Customers whose CLV is positive, on the other hand, contribute so
much to a company’s revenue that they generate an amount over and above that
needed to cover capital costs. In this sense, they increase the company’s value
and can be considered “really” good customers.

Table 4.3 shows how the CLV is calculated, using as an example a company in

the automation sector.

As in the example in Table 4.3, the CLV is typically calculated for a single
business relationship. If this is not possible or is too complex due to the data
availability situation, the value can be determined at the level of customer groups
or segments (Kunschert 2009). Homburg and Daum (1997) recommend using the
CLV as a negotiation tool for major customers. As the example shows, a negative

96

M. Kleinaltenkamp

l
a
t
o
T

n
m
9

0
0
0
,
0
5

0
0
0
,
0
7
3
,
6

0
0
0
,
0
0
9
,
1

0
0
0
,
4
2
7

7
9
3
,
8
 
¼
V
L
C

0
0
0
,
6
1

r
a
e
y

h
t
5

n
m
6
1

.

0
0
0
0
1

,

r
a
e
y

h
t
4

n
m
7

.

1

0
0
0
0
1

,

r
a
e
y

d
r
3

n
m
8
1

.

0
0
0
0
1

,

r
a
e
y

d
n
2

n
m
9
1

.

0
0
0

,

0
1

,

0
0
0
0
4
0
1

,

,

0
0
0
0
6
1
1

,

,

0
0
0
0
6
2
1

,

,

0
0
0
0
5
3
1

,

0
0
0
0
3
1

,

0
0
0
0
0
4

,

0
0
0
0
4

,

1
2
3
7
2

,

0
0
0
0
4
1

,

0
0
0
0
9
3

,

0
0
0

,

0
2

6
2
0

,

5
1

0
0
0
0
5
1

,

0
0
0
0
8
3

,

0
0
0
0
2

,

9
2
5
6
1

,

0
0
0

,

4
5
1

0
0
0
0
7
3

,

0
0
0
6
3

,

7
2
7
2
3

,

r
a
e
y

t
s
1

n
m
0

.

2

0
0
0
0
1

,

n
m
6

.

1

0
0
0
0
5
1

,

0
0
0

,

0
0
0

,

0
0
0

,

0
0
1
 

0
0
1
 

0
6
3

)
.
c
t
e

,
s
c
i
t
s
i
g
o
l
(

s
t
s
o
c

t
r
o
p
p
u
s

s
e
l
a
S

r
a
e
y

r
e
p

e
u
n
e
v
e
r

s
u
l
p
r
u
S

)

%
0
1
(

e
u
n
e
v
e
r

s
u
l
p
r
u
s

d
e
t
n
u
o
c
s
i
D

)
9
0
0
2
(

t
r
e
h
c
s
n
u
K
n
o

d
e
s
a
B

:
e
c
r
u
o
S

e
u
n
e
v
e
r

d
e
t
a
i
c
o
s
s
A

s
t
s
o
c

g
n
i
r
u
t
c
a
f
u
n
a
M

e
u
n
e
v
e
r

s
s
o
r
G

s
t
s
o
c

s
e
l
a
S

e
l
p
m
a
x
e

n
a

s
a

y
n
a
p
m
o
c

n
o
i
t
a
m
o
t
u
a

n
a

h
t
i

w
V
L
C
f
o

n
o
i
t
a
l
u
c
l
a
C

3
4

.

e
l
b
a
T

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

97

CLV can serve as leverage to negotiate better conditions (Homburg and Daum
1997).

Case Study

A corporation in the automation sector is faced with the decision of accepting
a framework agreement with a term of ﬁve years. The agreement guarantees
an annual revenue, with the amount for the ﬁrst year being 2 million euros. A
price reduction of 100,000 euros is set for each subsequent year. A service
contract is also to be signed, guaranteeing an annual income of 10,000 euros.
To be able to assess the attractiveness of this framework agreement, the
company is now estimating the manufacturing, sales and sales support costs
that will be incurred. A discount rate of 10 % is set. The calculation of the
Customer Lifetime Value in Table 4.3 on the basis of this example shows
that, despite the positive cumulative surplus revenue, the CLV is negative
(Kunschert 2009).

4.2.2 Non-monetary Gages of Customer Value

As previously mentioned, a customer’s value to corporate practice consists rarely of
only monetary values or those that can be monetized. Non-monetary or qualitative
parameters can often be signiﬁcant. These are more difﬁcult to record and cannot be
assessed as precisely. Such criteria are imposed and used along with quantitative
parameters or in place of such parameters if there are no quantitative criteria
available, or when it does seem sensible to impose them (Rieker 1995).

Qualitative criteria used to determine a customer’s value can always be based on
many different properties and behaviors of customers (Anderson et al. 1993; Ford
and McDowell 1999; Wilson and Jantrania 1996). In principle, any of the
customer’s contributions to the supplier’s goals related to the market or to
customers can be taken into consideration (Fig. 4.1). So ﬁrst the challenge is to
select the properties that are relevant to the supplier company. There should be
knowledge or at least conjecture on the correlation of the relevant variables to a
customer’s value. And because of the qualitative nature, one must be aware that the
assessment of the relevant criteria is often necessarily subject to strong subjective
factors (Gu¨nter 2006).

The non-monetary criteria most important to the business-to-business sector will
be outlined in the following section. Approaches such as how these non-monetary
properties can be combined with the mentioned economic-quantitative parameters
in the course of multi-dimensional customer value analyses will then be described
in Sect. 4.2.3.

All of the procedures described are basically analyses of potential. As the term
implies, they examine anticipated values, not realized values. So customers who
perform above average do not necessarily effect direct growth for the supplier

98

M. Kleinaltenkamp

company (Cornelsen 2000). This is not the case until the respective potential has
actually been tapped.

(cid:129) Determination of the potential for innovation includes analysis of the
capabilities that the customer has to promote the supplier’s innovations (Rieker
1995). This is particularly of value to the supplier when it serves to reveal
customer needs simmering in the market but for which no marketable solution
exists. So-called “lead users” are particularly useful to the supplier for this
purpose. They are characterized by having the need for a new solution much
earlier than other purchasers and by being able to recognize and render the need
more precisely (Rieker 1995). The potential for innovation of such a customer
ﬁrm can also be an indication of whether it is inclined to adopt the supplier’s
innovations, thus serving as a reference for other customers.

(cid:129) The reference potential or the reference value of a customer is determined by
the “number of potential customers that an existing customer can reach within a
certain time based on recommendations and inﬂuence as well frequency and
intensity of contact and the extent of his social relationship networks” (Tomczak
and Rudolf-Sipo¨tz 2006, p. 135). In principle, a customer can pass along
positive, neutral or even negative information on a supplier or the products
and services offered. In the business-to-business sector, the reference value of
a customer is often of such great interest because the services offered—due to
the individual nature for a speciﬁc customer—do not yet exist at the time the
order is placed and are thus difﬁcult to evaluate. The uncertainties that this
evokes can then be reduced by positive statements made by experienced
customers. The more a customer supports a supplier in the acquisition of new
customers or in the introduction of new products and services, the greater is his
value to the supplier.

(cid:129) An analysis of the development potential is to be used to determine the ways in
which a customer ﬁrm can assert and develop itself in its markets in the future
(Mach 1993). Many different factors of the customer company can play a role in
this process. These factors include the competence of its management, produc-
tion equipment and plants, the development potential of the business segments,
the quality of marketing strategies as well as of the products offered by the
customer company, the development of the its markets as well as of its own sales
or business practices (Mach 1993; Rieker 1995).

(cid:129) The purpose of an analysis of the potential for cooperation is to discover the
extent to which a customer is willing to enter into joint activities with the
supplier. The goal is to achieve synergies that e.g. arise from joint sales or
research and development activities. From the supplier’s point of view, this is
appealing not least because such a cooperation can promote a customer’s loyalty
to the supplier (Rieker 1995).

These analyses can provide interesting ﬁndings on the value of individual
customer relationships. However, it should be noted that, in the actual implementa-
tion of the stated methods for compiling quality properties of customer value, the

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

99

relevant criteria are not recorded or monitored in most of the controlling systems
used by supplier companies (Gelbrich and Mu¨ller 2006). So actual performance of
the analyses is often tedious and related to single cases, reducing the signiﬁcance
and applicability of the results.

4.2.3 Multi-dimensional Approaches to Determining Customer

Value

4.2.3.1 Scoring Models
Scoring-based analyses of customer value normally combine qualitative and quan-
titative elements. Scoring processes are basically models of a relatively simple
mathematic structure that can be differentiated in many ways and can be adapted to
different purposes—in this case, the evaluation of customers.

This is the typical procedure for creating a scoring model to evaluate customers

(Table 4.4):

(cid:129) First a list of all criteria relevant to customer evaluation must be compiled

(column 1).

(cid:129) The second step is to weight the criteria by their signiﬁcance (column 2),

whereby the sum of the individual weights is one or 100 %.

(cid:129) Then each customer is evaluated in regard to each criterion and assigned a score
(columns 3–6, left). Different scales can be used for the evaluation (the value
range is 1–5 in the example). The higher the assigned score, the stronger is the
criterion for the speciﬁc customer. Inverse scales can also be used. For example,
a higher score for customer care expenditure is equivalent to lower expenditure
for customer care.

(cid:129) All of the scores are then multiplied by the corresponding weighting factor

(column 3–6, right).

(cid:129) Finally, the weighted scores are added up to produce the total score of the
customer (total lines in columns 3–13). It represents the customer value deter-
mined in this sense.

Which factors are considered important, how many criteria are applied and how
they are weighted is always open. It can and should be discussed by the supplier
company using this process. Comparing different opinions on the individual aspects
as well as bringing about a consensus on this topic offer good opportunities to share
knowledge about individual customers that already exists within the company as
well as knowledge on awareness of what is considered important or not. This allows
information on individual customers or groups of customers to be improved and
enhanced.

One should nonetheless be aware of the strengths, weaknesses and limits of
scoring models. First of all, scoring models depend greatly on subjective
assessments. This applies to the weighting factors as well as to the scores. Another
limitation or assumption when calculating customer values with the scoring process

100

M. Kleinaltenkamp

.
d
t
w

0
6
.
0

5
1
.
0

2
0
.
0

3
0
.
0

5
1
.
0

4
1
.
0

4
1
.
0

8
1
.
0

1
0
.
0

2
1
.
0

5
0
.
0

5
2
.
0

5
2
.
0

0
1
.
0

8
0
.
0

0
1
.
0

5
1
.
0

7
3
2
,
0
4

s
t
n
i
o
P

3

3

2

1

3

3

3

3

1

4

1

5

5

2

3

4

3

.
d
t
w

0
6
.
0

0
1
.
0

3
0
.
0

3
0
.
0

5
2
.
0

4
1
.
0

4
1
.
0

8
1
.
0

1
0
.
0

9
0
.
0

5
1
.
0

5
2
.
0

0
2
.
0

5
1
.
0

8
0
.
0

0
1
.
0

0
1
.
0

3
3
0

,

0
4

s
t
n
i
o
P

3

2

3

1

5

3

3

3

1

3

3

5

4

3

3

4

2

.

d
t
w

0
6
0

.

0
2
0

.

4
0
0

.

9
0
0

.

5
2
0

.

4
1
0

.

9
0
0

.

6
0
0

.

1
0
0

.

9
0
0

.

0
2
0

.

0
2
0

.

0
2
0

.

5
1
0

.

8
0

.

0

0
1
0

.

5
1
0

.

0
7
0
0
4

,

s
t
n
i
o
P

3

4

4

3

5

3

2

1

1

3

4

4

4

3

3

4

3

.

d
t
w

0
6
0

.

0
2
0

.

4
0
0

.

2
1
0

.

0
2
0

.

5
0
0

.

9
0
0

.

8
1
0

.

1
0
0

.

9
0
0

.

5
1
0

.

5
2
0

.

5
2
0

.

5
2
0

.

8
0
0

.

0
1
0

.

0
2
0

.

2
9
5
0
4

,

s
t
n
i
o
P

r
o
t
c
a
f

g
n
i
t
h
g
i
e

W

3

4

4

4

4

1

2

3

1

3

3

5

5

5

3

4

4

0
0
2
0

.

0
5
0
0

.

0
1
0
0

.

0
3
0
0

.

0
5
0

.

0

5
4
0
0

.

5
4
0
0

.

0
6
0

.

0

0
1
0

.

0

0
3
0

.

0

0
5
0

.

0

0
5
0
0

.

0
5
0
0

.

0
5
0

.

0

5
2
0

.

0

5
2
0
0

.

0
5
0
0

.

s
i
s
y
l
a
n
a
C
B
A
o
t

.
g
d
c
c
a

k
n
a
R

t
n
e
m
p
o
l
e
v
e
d

e
u
n
e
v
e
R

s
p
e
r

s
e
l
a
s

e
r
u
t
i
d
n
e
p
x
e

t
r
o
p
p
u
S

r
e
d
r
o

y
b

e
u
n
e
v
e
r

f
o

e
r
a
h
S

e
l
a
r
o
m

t
n
e
m
y
a
P

e
c
ﬁ
f
o

e
r
u
t
i
d
n
e
p
x
e

t
r
o
p
p
u
S

t
n
e
m
y
o
l
p
m
e

n
o

e
c
n
e
u
ﬂ
n
I

.
3

y
t
i
r
a
l
u
g
e
r

r
e
d
r
O

g
n
i
s
s
e
c
o
r
p

s
e
l
a
S

.
2

a
i
r
e
t
i
r
c

n
o
i
t
a
u
l
a
v
E

e
u
n
e
v
e
R

.
1

t
n
e
m
p
o
l
e
v
e
d

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

.
4

t
n
e
m
p
o
l
e
v
e
d

t
e
k
r
a
M

h
t
w
o
r
g

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

n
o
i
t
i
s
o
p

t
e
k
r
a
M

s
r
o
t
c
a
f

n
o
i
t
i
t
e
p
m
o
C

.
5

1

2

3

4

p
u
o
r
g

t
c
u
d
o
r
P

p
u
o
r
g

t
c
u
d
o
r
P

p
u
o
r
g

t
c
u
d
o
r
P

p
u
o
r
g

t
c
u
d
o
r
P

n
o
i
t
i
s
o
p

e
v
i
t
i
t
e
p
m
o
c

e
v
i
t
a
l
e
R

s
e
i
r
e
v
i
l
e
d

f
o

e
r
a
h
s

e
v
i
t
a
l
e
R

s
r
e
i
r
r
a
b

g
n
i
h
c
t
i

w
S

)
6
(

)
5
(

)
4
(

D

I

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

)
3
(

)
2
(

n
o
i
t
a
u
l
a
v
e

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c

r
o
f

l
e
d
o
m
g
n
i
r
o
c
s

a

f
o

e
l
p
m
a
x
E

4
4

.

e
l
b
a
T

)
1
(

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

101

9
0
.
0

0
4
.
0

2
1
.
0

2
1
.
3

3

4

3

9
0
.
0

0
3
.
0

2
1
.
0

0
1
.
3

3

3

3

9
0
0

.

0
3
0

.

2
1
0

.

5
1
3

.

3

3

3

5
1
0

.

0
3
0

.

4
0
0

.

4
3

.

3

5

3

1

0
3
0
0

.

0
0
1
0

.

0
4
0
0

.

0
0
1

.

s
e
n
i
l
d
a
e
d

l
a
i
c
e
p
s

o
t

e
u
d

g
n
i
r
u
t
c
a
f
u
n
a
m
n
o

n
i
a
r
t
S

n
o
i
t
a
r
e
p
o
o
c

r
o
f

l
a
i
t
n
e
t
o
p

s
’
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

l
a
i
t
n
e
t
o
p

e
c
n
e
r
e
f
e
R

a
i
r
e
t
i
r
c

l
a
r
e
n
e
G

.
6

)
7
9
9
1
(

e
k
n
i
l
P

n
o

d
e
s
a
B

:
e
c
r
u
o
S

l
a
t
o
T

102

M. Kleinaltenkamp

is that adding up the weighted scores implies that the evaluation criteria are
independent. In reality, this is generally not the case though. The individual
properties actually correlate with one another, meaning that they are not indepen-
dent of one another in their manifestation. So a customer who requires intensive
care is generally the source of high care expenditure for the sales reps as well as for
the ofﬁce. In such a case a high value in one of the two categories always means a
similarly high value in the other category. Because both values are used, the
expenditure for customer care is allocated twice to some extent. This then leads
to some distortions, such as overestimating or underestimating certain criteria
applied to calculate customer values.

As long as one is aware of their limitations, scoring processes can be considered
very ﬂexible and simple-to-use instruments for the evaluation of customers. Partic-
ularly when used regularly—about once a year—they can reveal interesting insight
into the status and development of business relationships with individual customers.

4.2.3.2 Customer Portfolios
Like the scoring models, customer portfolios are also a form of customer value
analysis in which multiple criteria can be considered for the evaluation at the same
time. The distinctive feature of customer portfolio analysis is less the determination
of the values that ﬂow into it than the way in which the results are displayed. Also,
recommendations can be derived relatively simply from the positions of individual
customers within the portfolio; these recommendations offer at least an initial
starting point for designing customer-based strategies. Because of the easy trace-
ability and the fact that the respective circumstances are clearly shown, customer
portfolios have come to enjoy wide acceptance, despite the fact that they contain no
unequivocally quantiﬁable results.

Ultimately, the goal of customer portfolio analysis is less the assessment of
individual customers and more an optimal composition of the customer base. It is
more an examination of the structure—including and especially for large quantities
of customers (Dubinsky and Ingram 1984; Fiocca 1982; Johnson and Selnes 2004).
Nevertheless, customer portfolio analysis is also used to evaluate individual
customers in the business-to-business sector, especially because the number of
customers is easily manageable in this ﬁeld, which in turn enables them to be
assigned to a portfolio (Cornelsen 2000). Several customers can nonetheless be
combined to customer segments and then evaluated together.

The structure of customer portfolios is the same as that of business portfolios.
Both types of analysis are based on the fundamental concept of portfolio theory by
Markowitz (1952), whereby ﬁnancial assets should be evaluated looking at two
dimensions:
their anticipated return and the associated risk. The individual
customers and the business relationships established with them are viewed in this
sense as investments, which are evaluated in regard to their future intrinsic value.
On the one hand, criteria are applied that typically—analog to the return on an
investment—serve as an indication of the future attractiveness of the customers. On
the other hand, the position of one’s own company in the eyes of the customer is
compared to the position of one or more major competitors as seen by the same

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

103

s
s
e
n
e
v
i
t
c
a
r
t
t
a
 
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

Develop

Customer C

h
g
i
H

Customer I

Maintain

Customer F

Customer H

Customer A

w
o
L

Low

Reduce

Decide

Customer E

Customer G

Customer B

Customer D

Relative competitive position

High

Fig. 4.6 Customer attractiveness/relative supplier position portfolio

customers. This relative competitive position reﬂects to some extent the risks
associated with the respective business relationship: If one’s own position is
relatively strong, the earnings in the respective business relationship can probably
be realized more easily than when one’s position is weaker. But as with the scoring
process,
there are ultimately no ﬁxed guidelines regarding the criteria and
dimensions to be applied. The choice thereof is a factor of the speciﬁc situation,
the goal of the analysis and the relevant technical requirements for data acquisition
and analysis.

Figure 4.6 shows an example of a customer attractiveness/relative supplier
position portfolio. The customer attractiveness, plotted along the vertical axis,
can be measured by factors such as revenue, contribution margin, anticipated
growth of customer, price elasticity, cross-selling potential, entry barriers,
customers’ reputation, stability of business, etc. Parameters such as the relative
share of wallet, cost and location advantages, ﬁnancial power or product
advantages, etc. as compared to the major competitor(s) can ﬂow into the evalua-
tion of the relative competitive position. The individual total values (scores) are
typically determined using scoring models (previous section).

When performing the evaluation, it is important—similar to application of the
scoring process—to ensure that the dimensions are independent, preventing sys-
tematic distortion and thus double evaluations of individual criteria. To avoid this
risk, Kuhlmann (2001) recommends that one of the dimensions should include
internal criteria and the other external criteria. Internal criteria means those that the

104

M. Kleinaltenkamp

supplier can inﬂuence, like the relative share of deliveries. External criteria refers to
values upon which the supplier company has no inﬂuence, e.g. the growth rate of
the customer market.

The customers are plotted as a circle in the matrix according to their respective
evaluations, whereby the size of the circle represents the revenue currently
generated by the customer.

As Fig. 4.6 shows, the four quadrants of the matrix can also be assigned standard
strategies for the constellation of business relationship management. Customers
who are highly attractive and whose companies enjoy a strong competitive position
should continue to be developed. Customers who are particularly attractive but with
whom the supplier company has a weaker position than the competitors should at
least be retained. Relationships to customers who are not particularly attractive and
with whom one’s own standing as s supplier is weaker should be reduced or perhaps
even completely relinquished. And with customers who assign a high position to the
supplier but who are otherwise not particularly attractive, a decision should be
made as to how the business relationship should evolve in the future. If their
attractiveness can be increased in the future—in whichever way—the relationships
with them should be cultivated or even intensiﬁed. If not, it makes sense to decrease
the business relationship activities or to even give up the relationship

Deriving from standard strategies in such a way on the basis of a customer’s
position in a portfolio should deﬁnitely be viewed critically (Cornelsen 2000). A
customer portfolio is initially a static model that reﬂects the assessment of business
models at a certain point in time. This poses a certain contradiction to the dynamic
character of business relationships, and there is a risk that the signiﬁcance of the
customers will be evaluated incorrectly over the course of time. Also, the analysis
normally includes only the current customer base, not taking into consideration the
need to acquire new customers. Because of the undifferentiated approach and the
weak theoretic reasoning, Kunschert (2009) and Plinke (1997) categorically dis-
miss deriving such recommendations solely on the basis of a portfolio analysis.
They suggest using customer portfolios only for purposes of analysis (Plinke 1997).
All the same, the standard strategies outlined here provide at least initial indications
of how relationships to individual customers should be designed (Kunschert 2009).
Basing a business relationship strategy solely on such an evaluation would, how-
ever, surely be very risky and inexpedient because of the inherent reduction in
information.

4.2.4 Practical Application of Different Customer Evaluation

Methods

In a study conducted in early 2000, Tomczak and Rudolf-Sipo¨tz (2006) analyzed
which of the customer evaluation methods introduced here are actually used in
corporate practice. It was apparent that companies still use the “traditional,” easy to
implement methods most frequently. Despite the stated deﬁciencies in the method,
ABC analysis based on revenue is still
the dominant choice. A welcomed

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

105

Regularly

Iregularly

Not at
all

No information
available

ABC analysis by revenue

99

37

15

ABC analysis by contribution margins

Calcul. of customer contribution margin

Process cost calculation

Scoring models

Customer portfolio

Calculation of customer lifetime value

Trend process

Expert systems

Customer survey

12

14

23

21

5

7

8

29

31

Lifecycle concept

12

Scenario technique

6

0%

66

57

47

39

74

36

49

20%

44

43

37

45

75

79

63

52

108

94

91

81

75

60%

40%

64

7

80%

100%

n = 155

Fig. 4.7 Frequency of use of customer evaluation methods. Source: Based on Tomczak and
Rudolf-Sipo¨tz (2006)

development is that the use of the calculation of the customer contribution margin
or of ABC analysis based on customer contribution margins has become much more
widespread. Figure 4.7 shows in detail how frequently the individual evaluation
methods are used.

4.3

Customer Value Controlling

When business relationship management activities are viewed as investments
intended to effect return ﬂows of at least the same amount through business with
the customers, examining only random points of the customer value—such as at the
beginning of the customer relationship—does not seem to make sense. To be able to
meet the goals of business relationship management, it is rather essential to
examine the long-term development of customer values and to continuously moni-
tor the extent to which identiﬁed potential for success is actually achieved. Cus-
tomer value controlling in this sense should include activities that plan, control and
monitor customers’ potential for success (Reinecke and Keller 2006). This
comprises the following tasks (Table 4.5):

(cid:129) The purpose of planning is to identify customer potential, in order to be able to
select those customers that appear to be the most proﬁtable for the company over
the long term and to prioritize customers in regard to the treatment with which to
provide them. If this process reveals unproﬁtable customers or groups of
customers, the business relationships can be terminated (Sect. 5.4). Alternately,

106

M. Kleinaltenkamp

Table 4.5 Planning, control and monitoring of customer’s potential for success

Phase

Planning
Control

Monitoring

Procedure

Goal

Prioritization of customers
Resource allocation in regard to customer
value
Comparison of anticipated customer
values

Identiﬁcation of customer potential
Maximizing customer potential

Effectiveness of potential
maximization

Source: Based on Reinecke and Keller (2006)

additional investments in the business relationship can be considered, with the
goal of once again making these customers proﬁtable partners for the supplier.
(cid:129) Control is intended to implement measures that realize the identiﬁed customer
potential. A company’s resources available for purposes of business relationship
management are applied as best suited to the determined customer value,
whereby the attractive customers or groups of customers should of course be
the main focus.

(cid:129) Finally, monitoring looks at the extent to which the aspired for customer
potential was actually effectively utilized by the company. It is essential to
continuously compare the customer values to the company’s goals and to react
to different situations as needed. Changes can be attributed to external causes,
e.g. to different competitive conditions on customer markets or recent techno-
logical innovations. Internal causes can be the result of improved customer
relationships or better internal opportunities to maximize customer potential
(Reinecke and Keller 2006).

Although the fundamental challenges and tasks of comprehensive controlling of
customer value are known, it is seldom actually practiced. The reason for this is that
the controlling systems and procedures are still strongly oriented on the conditions
and requirements of internal accounting. On the other hand, gages and procedures
related to the customer and to the market are only rarely examined or implemented.
In the sense of customer- and market-oriented corporate management, many
companies have an enormous potential for improvement for which the previously
described criteria and methods can be used.

Appendix

Exercises

1. State criteria that can be applied to determine customer value!
2. Explain the concept of revenue analysis and the classiﬁcation of the customer
base in A, B and C customers. Why does using the revenue analysis not seen
sufﬁcient? What should be taken into consideration with revenue analysis?

4 Customer Value and Customer Selection

107

3. Explain the structure of calculation of the customer contribution margin. What

can be problematic when compiling customer-speciﬁc costs?

4. What is the problem with calculation of the contribution margin when there are

economies of scope on the revenue side?

5. Explain the concept of “pool calculation.” What are the advantages of “pool

calculation”?

6. In which ways can the Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) be determined? How

do they differ from one another?

7. Describe typical challenges faced when determining the CLV!
8. What are non-monetary parameters of customer value? Which manifestations

of analysis of potential are there, and how do they differ from one another?

9. Describe the procedure for scoring-based customer analyses. What are the

disadvantages of scoring-based customer analyses?

10. What is the difference between customer portfolios and scoring models?
Explain the structure of a customer portfolio by giving an example. How can
the independence of the dimensions be ensured?

11. What does customer value controlling mean, and into which phases is the

customer’s potential for success divided?

References

Anderson, J. C., Jain, D. C., & Chintagunta, P. (1993). Customer value assessment in business

markets: A state-of-practice study. Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing, 1, 3–29.

Berger, P. D., & Nasr, N. I. (1998). Customer lifetime value: Marketing models and applications.

Journal of Interactive Marketing, 12(1), 17–30.

Cornelsen, J. (2000). Kundenwertanalysen im Beziehungsmarketing—Theoretische Grundlegung

und Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie im Automobilbereich (1st ed.). Nu¨rnberg.

Dubinsky, A. J., & Ingram, T. N. (1984). A portfolio approach to account proﬁtability. Industrial

Marketing Management, 13(1), 33–41.

Eggert, A. (2006). Die zwei Perspektiven des Kundenwerts—Darstellung und Versuch einer

Integration. In B. Gu¨nter & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert (pp. 41–59). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Engelhardt, W. H. (1976). Erscheinungsformen und absatzpolitische Probleme von Angebots- und

Nachfrageverbunden. Zeitschrift f€ur betriebswirtschaftliche Forschung, 28, 77–90.

Fiocca, R. (1982). Account portfolio for strategy development. Industrial Marketing Management,

11(1), 53–62.

Ford, D., & McDowell, R. (1999). Managing business relationships by analyzing the effects and

value of different actors. Industrial Marketing Management, 28(5), 429–442.

Gelbrich, K., & Mu¨ller, S.

(2006). Kundenwert—Hintergrund, Konzeptualisierung und
Messmethoden. In N. Schweickart & A. To¨pfer (Eds.), Wertorientiertes Management—
Werterhaltung, Wertsteuerung, Wertsteigerung ganzheitlich gestalten (pp. 449–487). Berlin:
Springer.

Gupta, S. & Lehmann, D. (2005). Managing customers as investments the strategic value of

customers in the long run (1st ed.). Wharton School Publishing.

Gu¨nter, B. (2006). Kundenwert—mehr als nur Erlo¨s: Qualitative Bausteine der Kundenbewertung.

In B. Gu¨nter & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert (3rd ed., pp. 241–265). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Helm, S., & Gu¨nter, B. (2006). Kundenwert—Herausforderungen der Bewertung von Kundenbe-
ziehungen. In B. Gu¨nter & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert Grundlagen, innovative Konzepte,
praktische Umsetzungen (pp. 4–38). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

108

M. Kleinaltenkamp

Homburg, C., & Daum, D. (1997). Marktorientiertes Kostenmanagement—Kostenefﬁzienz und

Kundenn€ahe verbinden (1st ed.). Frankfurt am Main.

Johnson, M. D., & Selnes, F. (2004). Customer portfolio management: Toward a dynamic theory

of exchange relationships. Journal of Marketing, 68(2), 1–17.

Ko¨hler, R. (2008). Kundenorientiertes Rechnungswesen als Voraussetzung des Kundenbindungs-
In M. Bruhn & C. Homburg (Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbeziehungs-
managements.
management—Stragtegien und Instrumente f€ur ein erfolgreiches CRM (pp. 467–500).
Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Krafft, M. (1999). Der Kunde im Fokus–Kundenna¨he, Kundenzufriedenheit Kundenbindung- und

Kundenwert? Die Betriebswirtschaft, 59(4), 511–530.

Krafft, M., & Albers, S. (1997). Dem Kundenwert auf der Spur. Absatzwirtschaft, 40(6), 104–107.
Kruschwitz, L. (2000). Wirtschaftlichkeitsrechnung als Grundlage industrieller Beschaffung-
In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke (Eds.), Technischer Vertrieb—

sentscheidungen.
Grundlagen des Business-to-Business Marketing (2nd ed., pp. 451–522). Berlin: Springer.

Kuhlmann, E. (2001). Industrielles Vertriebsmanagement (1st ed.). Mu¨nchen: Vahlen.
Kunschert, M. (2009). Der Kundenwert im Industrieg€utermarketing (1st ed.). Ko¨ln: Ko¨lner

Mach, G. (1993). Systematische Auswahl von Neukunden bei Investitionsgu¨tern. Marktforschung

Wissenschaftsverlag.

& Management, 37(1), 38–40.

Markowitz, H. M. (1952). Portfolio selection. The Journal of Finance, 7(1), 77–91.
Plinke, W. (1997). Bedeutende Kunden. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke (Eds.), Gesch€aftsbe-

ziehungsmanagement (pp. 113–159). Berlin: Springer.

Reinecke, S., & Keller, J. (2006). Strategisches Kundenwertcontrolling—Planung, Steuerung und
Kontrolle von Kundenerfolgspotenzialen. In S. Reinecke & T. Tomczak (Eds.), Handbuch
Marketing-Controlling (pp. 255–282). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Rese, M. (2006). Entscheidungsunterstu¨tzung in Gescha¨ftsbeziehungen mittels Deckungsbeitrags-
rechnung—Mo¨glichkeiten und Grenzen. In B. Gu¨nter & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert—
Grundlagen,
innovative Konzepte, praktische Umsetzungen (pp. 293–310). Wiesbaden:
Gabler.

Rieker, S. A. (1995). Bedeutende Kunden—Analyse und Gestaltung von langfristigen Anbieter-

Nachfrager-Beziehungen auf industriellen M€arkten. Wiesbaden: DUV.

Rudolf-Sipo¨tz, E. (2001). Kundenwert—Konzeption, Determinanten, Management. Bamberg:

Difo-Druck.

Tomczak, T., & Rudolf-Sipo¨tz, E. (2006). Bestimmungsfaktoren des Kundenwertes: Ergebnisse
In B. Gu¨nter & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert:
einer branchenu¨bergreifenden Studie.
Grundlagen—Innovative Konzepte—Praktische Umsetzungen (pp. 127–156). Wiesbaden:
Gabler.

Wilson, D. T., & Jantrania, S. (1996). Understanding the value of a relationship. Asia—Australia

Marketing Journal, 2(1), 55–66.

Strategies of Business Relationship
Management

5

Ingmar Geiger

5.1

Strategic Tasks of Business Relationship Management

The conclusion of the second part of our book deals with strategies used in business
relationship management. Based on a clear understanding of customer behavior—
which in business relationships is primarily repurchase behavior (Chap. 3)—as well
as of customer evaluation and selection (Chap. 4), this chapter will discuss the
general thrust of business dealings within business relationship management. As we
will see, the time-related as well as the competition-related embeddedness of a
business relationship play a crucial role.

5.1.1 Strategy in Business Relationship Management as a Task

Between Competitive and Marketing Strategy

So far, we have become familiar with business relationship management as a
special type of supplier-customer interaction in the marketplace. The previous
two chapters were dedicated to intensive analysis of repurchase behavior and
customer evaluation. This chapter will deal with the implementation of business
relationship management. This could lead the reader to believe that business
relationship management
task geared
towards applying a certain range of marketing activities. The extent to which the
operative component of business relationship management has to be accompanied
by a strategic perspective is the subject of this chapter.

is primarily an operative management

But what is a strategic perspective? What distinguishes strategic decisions?
According to (Plinke 2002), they are “economic decisions that bear the distinction
of being particularly signiﬁcant to a company in regard to both time and content”

I. Geiger (*)
School of Business & Economics, Freie Universita¨t Berlin, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: ingmar.geiger@fu-berlin.de

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5_5

109

110

I. Geiger

(p. 7). They impact the company’s future development and competitiveness. The
following three examples clearly point out the extent to which this applies to
decisions made in the course of business relationship management:

Example 1

Company A is a ﬁrst tier supplier in the automotive industry. The company’s
few direct customers are automobile manufacturers, so-called OEMs (origi-
nal equipment manufacturer who regularly develop new series and then
produce them for several years. It is common practice to ﬁrst install techno-
logical innovations in the higher-quality series, e.g. Mercedes Benz S class or
BMW 7 series. When designing a new series, an OEM often announces a
competition for the new concept, with the goal of choosing one or two
suppliers for certain vehicle models or systems. If A has thus far not been a
customer of the OEM C, a successful bid in the competition to supply the
respective system could mean entry into a business relationship with C. Then
A’s production is not only ensured of a base load over years, the company
also has an important reference with which to attract other OEMs. With this
new customer relationship, A can plausibly position itself as a quality leader.

Example 2

The case with supplier B, a producer of corporate software, is somewhat
different. The company’s proprietary solution for a certain clientele has
grown organically. It often occurs that, despite additional modules and
expansions, such solutions reach their limits. New systems have to be
introduced from time and time, and they are not always compatible with the
old systems. If B then plans a technological leap that would no longer allow
downward compatibility—for example, to appeal to a larger circle of poten-
tial customers with a new platform and much less expensive components—
the bonding effects of the old system in regard to existing business
relationships would no longer apply.

Example 3

The situation with D, a German manufacturer of semiconductors, is different
from A and B. D supplies manufacturing technology and process solutions for
the semiconductor industry. This industry is characterized by a rapid technol-
ogy cycle. According to “Moore’s Law” (Moore 1965), the computing
capacity of a semiconductor component doubles every 2 years. For D’s

(continued)

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

111

customers to be able to promptly supply their own customers at the beginning
of every new generation of technology, they need the newest manufacturing
technology as quickly as possible. To facilitate this, the semiconductor
manufacturer has to integrate various initial
investments. D’s initial
investments are as much a part of this as the investments made by the
American company P. In addition, both companies use various services
supplied by the other company. D and P recently announced a strategic
partnership. With the integration of their respective capabilities on the one
hand and their joint cooperation with nearby universities and research
facilities on the other, both companies anticipate faster and more comprehen-
sive solutions for the semiconductor industry.

In the ﬁrst two examples, decisions made in the course of business relationship
management have a signiﬁcant impact on the economic viability of the company. In
Example 1, taking advantage of a strategic window paves the way to entering into a
new business relationship. For supplier A, this is a rare opportunity for organic
growth in an industry in which supplier-customer relationships tend to be rigid.
Also, A can use the new business relationship as a reference for top technology. The
superiority of the special supplier system can be demonstrated, making A a more
attractive partner for other OEMs as well. In contrast, the technological leap in
Example 2 B poses the threat of harming or even terminating business relationships
without entering into new relationships of the same scope and volume.

The situation in Example 3 is a little different. The customer relationships of D
and of P are characterized by enormous time competition. This time competition is
a continuous threat to the viability of the semiconductor manufacturer, as many
bankruptcies have clearly demonstrated over the years. Thus, many of D’s and P’s
business relationships are in danger. Besides the relationships with their customers,
D and P have a relationship with one another. It is distinguished by their mutual
supplier-customer relationship, but also by the fact that both companies supply
similar customers. With the planned cooperation, D and P intend to gain a head start
and then pass along the beneﬁts to their customers. Both companies use their
network to not only ensure the survival of their customers but also to secure and
expand their own business relationships with customers. This, too, is a supplier
decision intended to be more competitive in business relationships.

All of the examples are about obtaining or defending a competitive advantage.
Achieving a competitive advantage is generally viewed as the foremost task of
competitive strategy (Kleinaltenkamp 2002). There are two fundamental
alternatives to achieving a competitive advantage: A supplier can offer his
customers a less expensive or a better solution to a problem. These concepts are
referred to as price leadership and quality leadership. Some authors point out a third
strategy option: Porter (1980) talks about a niche strategy differentiated by the
degree of market penetration, while Backhaus and Schneider (2009) deem the
dimension of time to be essential and cite time leadership as the third generic

112

I. Geiger

strategy. What all of the generic strategy options have in common is that they are all
organizationally established at
the level of a strategic business segment
(Kleinaltenkamp and Fließ 2002).

Although the concept of marketing as a mindset of market-oriented corporate
management has asserted itself amongst marketing researchers (Backhaus and
Schneider 2009; Homburg and Krohmer 2009), marketing in companies is still
considered a corporate function. Therefore some authors differentiate the marketing
strategy from the competitive strategy, e.g. Kleinaltenkamp and Fließ (2002). These
two authors are convinced that the marketing strategy comprises “the entire process
of the selection and targeted application of marketing instruments. (. . .) Moreover
[the activities of the marketing strategy] provide the framework for all measures
related to business relationship management that aim to establish or maintain a
business relationship” (p. 237).

are

positioned

somewhere

Strategic decisions in business relationship management, depending on their
manifestation,
strategy
interpretations. Decisions in the course of business relationship management con-
tribute signiﬁcantly to the pursuit of various options regarding competitive strategy
or even enable this in the ﬁrst place. On the other hand, decisions related to
competitive strategy impact the implementation of business relationship manage-
ment, thus affecting the marketing strategy.

between

these

two

The three examples clearly reveal both facets. In the ﬁrst case, A’s entering into
a business relationship with OEM C can lead to A being viewed by C’s competitors
as a quality leader for the system being considered. This is an essential prerequisite
for obtaining a competitive advantage (Backhaus and Voeth 2010, whereby the
authors talk about a comparative competitive advantage). So when A is successful
in entering into a business relationship with C, he has successfully accomplished a
signiﬁcant competitive move. The second case is different: With his new system
platform that no longer possesses downward compatibility, software supplier B is
pursuing a price leadership strategy. B loses the bonding effects of the previous
system and thus has to think about how to maintain the existing business
relationships or if he can afford to forfeit some of his existing business
relationships. So a decision relating to competitive strategy has an effect on the
marketing strategy. Both inﬂuences can be detected in the third example.
Intensifying their relationship with one another with a technology partnership
creates a basis on which D and P can assert their time leadership. This is in turn
reﬂected in the constellation of the business relationships to both companies’
customers. If D and P are successful in achieving their competitive position, the
value of the relationships to the customers increases for the customers as well. This
consolidates the business relationships.

So when business relationship management helps to reply to competitive strate-
gic questions, it warrants discussing the extent to which our navigator, the competi-
tive advantage (Plinke 2000), is applicable. A particular question is whether our
understanding of a business relationship means that the contents of the concept have
to be more narrowly speciﬁed or modiﬁed. The following section deals with this
question.

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

113

5.1.2 Competitive Advantage in the Context of Business

Relationship Management

According to Plinke (2000), the competitive advantage of a supplier S consists of a
customer-based component and a supplier-based component. The customer-based
component is the customer beneﬁt, reﬂected in the relative net beneﬁt. Supplier S
reaps such a beneﬁt when customer C favors S’s offering over a similar competitive
offer from S’s competitor SC. It is assumed that, to assess the relative net beneﬁt, all
signiﬁcant beneﬁt and cost components of the two competing offers perceived by
the customer are taken into consideration. So the relative net beneﬁt is the effec-
tiveness advantage of supplier S (Backhaus and Voeth 2010). S can achieve the
relative net beneﬁt of customer C by providing C with a greater beneﬁt than SC, by
generating lower costs than SC or by combining cost and beneﬁt elements that
reinforce one another or compensate for one another.

The supplier advantage, on the other hand, describes the efﬁciency dimension of
the competitive advantage. Supplier S has a supplier advantage when he is able to
economically provide the customer beneﬁt. S should make a proﬁt in the short term.
Over the long term, S’s proﬁt should be greater than that of SC to be able to defend
the competitive advantage. If S were to make a lesser proﬁt than SC over the long
term, SC could implement cost reductions to change the cost difference between the
offers to the customer and potentially eliminate S’s customer beneﬁt as compared to
SC. Figure 5.1 shows the key elements of the competitive advantage.

l
a
t
o
T

e
v
i
t
i
t
e
p
m
o
c

e
g
a
t
n
a
v
d
a

s
t
s
o
C

 
,
s
t
i
f
e
n
e
B

Customer perspective

Perceived
relative benefit
S/SC

Offer
price
SC

Procurement and
implementation

costs
SC 

Operating,
maintenance

and

waste disposal

costs
SC

SC

Relative

net

benefit
S/SC

Offer
price

S

Procurement and
implementation

costs

S

Operating,

maintenance and
waste disposal

costs

S
S

Perceived
Cost difference S/SC

Offer price SC

Profit SC

Relative

net

benefit
S/SC

Offer price S

Profit difference

Profit S

S/SC

Costs of goods

Costs of goods

SC

S

Supplier perspective

Fig. 5.1 Example of a competitive advantage. Source: Based on Plinke (2000)

114

I. Geiger

As we have already discussed, the competitive advantage serves as a fundamen-
tal
instrument
that a company uses to navigate all market-related strategy
deliberations. However, if one examines this navigator more closely, it becomes
obvious that the fundamental logic of achieving a competitive advantage is implic-
itly related to transactions, the market (segment) and the point in time.

The transaction as the object of reference is reﬂected in the fact that, in
demonstrating a competitive advantage, the beneﬁts of a transaction become
plausible to both the customer and the supplier. When customer C reaps a greater
net beneﬁt from a transaction with supplier S than from a transaction with an
alternative supplier SC and supplier S makes a proﬁt on the transaction, the
transaction comes about. Supplier S then has a competitive advantage (with the
customer).

But since it is only in special cases that a supplier can cover all of the costs of
goods sold from a single transaction, e.g. in the project business (Backhaus and
Voeth 2010; Plinke 1998), in all other cases the portrayal of the competitive
advantage is always related to the target market (segment), meaning the aggre-
gate of the current and potential customers of the respective supplier. The supplier
company cannot work such as to cover all ﬁxed costs and generate a proﬁt until all
of the customers have been carefully examined. The higher a supplier’s ﬁxed costs
are, the stronger is the inﬂuence of the total number of customers on the existence of
a supplier advantage.

In addition to the reference to the transaction and the market segment, the basic
discussion of a competitive advantage reveals the reference to a speciﬁc point in
time. It is often pointed out that a competitive advantage should be defendable and
thus stable in regard to time, meaning it should always be recognizable when
customer and supplier beneﬁts are analyzed at different times (Plinke 2000;
Backhaus and Voeth 2010); this view remains comparative-static though.

The preceding chapters of this book have revealed that business relationship

management is based on

(cid:129) Business relationships, not on isolated transactions
(cid:129)
(cid:129) Time periods, not points in time.

Individual customers, not on markets or market segments and

For the construct competitive advantage to be able to be utilized as a navigation
instrument for business relationship management as well, the competitive advan-
tage properties discussed above will be speciﬁed and corrected in detail here.

The ﬁrst correction is needed in regard to the reference to a transaction. As
discussed in Chap. 1, the business relationship is the consequence of transactions
that have an internal relationship with one another. To be able to properly discuss
the competitive advantage, it is important to know whether, from the supplier and
customer point of view, the business relationship is a de facto or a planned
relationship.

Figure 5.2 shows the various possibilities. The beneﬁts that the supplier has from
the relationship are clearly a factor of how the exchange relationship (transaction

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

115

How the supplier has 
to view the 
competitive advantage

Customer's view at the beginning of a later business 

relationship

Transaction orientation 
(de facto business 
relationship)

Planned business 
relationship

 
e
h
t
 
t
a
 
w
e
i
v

 
s
'
r
e
i
l
p
p
u
S

 
s
s
e
n
i
s
u
b

 
r
e
t
a
l
 
a
 
f
o

 

g
n
i
n
n
i
g
e
b

p
i
h
s
n
o
i
t
a
l
e
r

Transaction 
orientation (de 
facto business 
relationship)

Customer benefit: static 
Supplier advantage: 
static

1

Customer benefit: 
dynamic
Supplier advantage: 
static

Planned 
business 
relationship

Customer benefit: static 
Supplier advantage: 
dynamic

4

Customer benefit: 
dynamic
Supplier advantage: 
dynamic

3

2

Fig. 5.2 Supplier’s view of the competitive advantage in business relationships

vs. relationship orientation) is viewed by both the supplier and the customer at the
beginning of the business relationship.

If at the beginning of a potential business relationship both parties assume they
will perform a transaction with one another without planning a business relation-
ship (quadrant 1), the supplier’s point of view is static: In the above transaction, his
offer must be effective, meaning that the customer receives a relative net beneﬁt
greater than that of a comparable offer from a competitor. Also, the supplier should
ensure that he makes a proﬁt with this transaction, thus realizing a supplier
advantage as a result of the transaction. Consideration of the beneﬁt is a cost-
beneﬁt calculation for both sides. So the supplier must invest effort in his marketing
activities to ensure that the potential customer clearly realizes the beneﬁts of the
transaction.

The opposite case would thus be a business relationship planned by both sides
(quadrant 2). In this case the customer’s as well as the supplier’s considerations of
the beneﬁts are based not on the costs and beneﬁts of a single transaction at a
speciﬁc point in time but on the entire time period of the planned business
relationship. This means that the cost-beneﬁt calculation applied thus far becomes
an investment decision (Hogan 2001): A customer beneﬁt exists when the customer
C ascribes to the future business relationship with supplier S a higher present value
(refer to Chap. 4, where the reverse point of view—the value of the business
relationship for the supplier—is reﬂected as the customer lifetime value) than to a
relationship with the competitor SC. This means that the discounted, cumulative
returns from this business relationship are higher than those from an alternative
business relationship. Likewise, S has a supplier advantage when the present value
of the business relationship for S is positive. Since this is an investment decision,
for the supplier it frequently means higher costs than revenue at the beginning of the
planned business relationship. But the costs are overcompensated later due to the

116

I. Geiger

long time horizon. As we can see, the customer and supplier advantage arise from
dynamic consideration in this case. For the supplier, this means that he has to gear
his marketing strategies towards pointing out to the customer the added value of a
business relationship, not of the single transaction.

Between these two poles, there are two alternatives for which the customer and
supplier point of view differ at the beginning of a potential business relationship. If
the customer considers the exchange relationship a planned business relationship
but the supplier is focused more on the transaction (quadrant 3), only examination
of the customer beneﬁt is subject to a dynamic calculation, while the supplier
advantage is viewed statically. So the customer wishes to enter into a business
relationship and the supplier has his doubts. Consequently, the question arises as to
whether this situation should even be included in a book about business relationship
management: After all, the supplier has no intention of entering into a business
relationship. If only the beginning of a business relationship were the topic of this
book, the answer would clearly be no. When looking at the issue of potential
termination of an existing business relationship by the supplier, we will encounter
the considerations in this quadrant of the matrix again. It can be stated that the
marketing activities of the supplier could be geared towards demonstrating the
advantages of a business relationship for the customer. But it is essential to point
out that a supplier advantage can be realized with every single transaction.

The fourth case is the one most commonly encountered in corporate reality.
While the potential customer is focusing on the beneﬁts of a transaction at the
beginning of a business relationship, the supplier is already thinking about a long-
term business relationship. This is justiﬁed by the fact that the supplier’s costs
incurred for customer acquisition are vastly higher than those incurred for customer
(Reichheld and Sasser 1990). In regard to marketing strategies, for the supplier this
means that he has to convey to potential customers the beneﬁts of the transaction.
He will make at least some investments that could ideally lead to the exchange
relationship with the customer becoming a business relationship. After all, he sees
his supplier beneﬁt as dynamic: It is important to him that the customer proves to be
proﬁtable over the course of the business relationship, not necessarily with the ﬁrst
transaction.

As already mentioned, differentiating between the static or the dynamic perspec-
tive of the competitive advantage is important not only at the beginning of a
business relationship. Over
the course of a business relationship, various
parameters affecting the competitive advantage of a supplier change. So the next
section will focus on strategic analysis in the context of business relationship
management, enabling the parameters to be identiﬁed and described in detail.

5.1.3 Strategic Analysis in the Context of Business Relationship

Management

Discussion of the competitive advantage showed that at least three objects must be
closely examined to determine the advantage: The situation of the customer, the

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

117

Global environmental factors = macro environment

Society

Customer

Economics

Competitive advantage

Politics

Supplier

Competitor

Marketing triangle = micro environment

Legal 
framework

Technology

Fig. 5.3 Strategic analysis. Source: Based on Homburg and Krohmer (2009)

state of competition and the capabilities of one’s own company. These three poles
form the marketing triangle (Backhaus and Voeth 2010) within which the competi-
tive advantage can be determined. But since none of the three poles can be
examined in isolation and there is much interaction with the environment, the
strategic analysis is supported by analysis of the global corporate environment
(Homburg and Krohmer 2009). The analysis includes examination of social, mac-
roeconomic, political, legal and technological developments. Figure 5.3 shows the
general strategic analysis task for marketing.

These analysis tasks of course also apply to companies whose marketing
activities are dedicated particularly to long-term business relationships. The tasks
generally required have already been discussed elsewhere (Kleinaltenkamp 2002).
Thus only two aspects of analysis will be handled in detail here—aspects that are of
particular relevance to strategic considerations in business relationship manage-
ment. The ﬁrst aspect has to do with the time dimension of business relationship
management. As the previous section explained, the competitive advantage can be
viewed statically as well as dynamically. Particularly with the dynamic view, the
time of consideration plays a decisive role in the market behavior of the
participants. So we need to look more closely at the phases of business relationship
management. Examination of the reciprocal effects of a business relationship with
its environment is deemed particularly signiﬁcant. The following two sections are
dedicated to these special analysis tasks.

5.1.3.1 Phases of Business Relationship Management
Phase models have been used for analysis purposes in marketing science and
practice for a long time. The product life cycle, shown in Fig. 5.4, is a particularly
prominent concept. Expanding on the adoption and diffusion of innovation (Rogers
2003), the concept describes how a product is disseminated in the market. It implies
that every product, in the modiﬁed form of the model, or even entire markets pass
through certain life cycle phases. The phases have different sales and proﬁt
potentials. The basic form of the model differentiates between introduction, growth,

118

Revenue/p
rofit

Product-based life cycle concept

I. Geiger

Revenue

Profit

0

0

0

Introduction

Growth

Maturity

Saturation

Relationship phase concept according to Dwyer-Schurr-Oh

Intensity of relationship / 
supplier-purchaser 
dependency

Awareness

Exploration

Expansion

Commitment

Dissolution

Three-phase concept of BRM

Commitment

(b)

(a)

Supplier

Customer

Entry into the business relationship: Out-supplier marketing

Defending the business relationship: In-supplier marketing

Termination of the business relationship: Exit management

t

t

t

Fig. 5.4 Phase concepts in marketing

maturity and saturation. The individual phases are often described following the
dimensions market growth, market potential, market shares, stability of market
shares, number of competitors, customer loyalty, entry barriers and technology

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

119

(Homburg and Krohmer 2009). Certain standard strategic assertions can be made
based on the different phases of the life cycle. Speciﬁcally, program structure
analysis can be performed to classify a supplier’s product portfolio in different
life cycle phases on the basis of the model. It serves to check for a balanced mix of
products in the various life cycle phases.

One aspect of the life cycle concept that is sometimes criticized is the simplicity
of the course of the curves. They reﬂect merely an ideal course. Other courses could
also be empirically proven. The time continues to be used as the sole explanatory
variable. This implies that the sales are subject to a certain regularity over which the
company has not inﬂuence. In regard to business relationship management, the
concept has two signiﬁcant weaknesses. On the one hand it is product-based and on
the other solely supplier-based. A business relationship can be founded on one
product, but often there are several products involved, especially in a long-term
relationship. Also it is dyadic, so a single supplier viewpoint is inadequate.

The relationship model propagated by Dwyer et al. (1987) has been applied
instead, particularly in US American marketing science. This is the concept shown
in the second graph in Fig. 5.4. The model describes the typical course of a
relational exchange between supplier and customer. The authors differentiate
between ﬁve phases: awareness, exploration, expansion, commitment and dissolu-
tion. In the awareness phase, the two parties become aware of one another, but all
actions are one-sided. According to the model, the parties begin to interact with one
another during the exploration phase. This phase is divided into ﬁve sub-phases:
attraction, communication and negotiations, development and application of power,
development of standards and formation of expectations. The initial transactions
occur here. In the positive case, a certain degree of trust and satisfaction is
established on the part of both partners, facilitating entry into the third phase.
This phase contains the same sub-phases as phase 2, except that the parties accept
greater risks and increase their mutual dependency. The fourth phase, commitment,
is the point at which the exchange partners reach the greatest relationship intensity.
The commitment phase is characterized by a high degree of speciﬁc investments by
both parties (inputs), by sustainability and by consistency/predictability. The last
phase is dissolution. While the establishment of a relationship requires activities by
both parties, dissolution is usually initiated by one party. In describing the ﬁnal
phase, the model’s authors use the analogy of dissolving a personal relationship. An
intrapsychic phase, in which one party evaluates its own satisfaction, ﬁnds it to be
negative and decides to terminate the relationship, is followed by in interactive
phase. The parties negotiate the modalities of the dissolution during this phase,
before making the dissolution public in the social phase. The process is completed
with a phase of social and mental recovery on both sides.

The phase concept developed by Dwyer et al. (1987) brought about substantial
added value in describing market exchanges between economic participants, in that
relational elements were compared to the purely economic cost-beneﬁt calculation
of economic theory. And as opposed to the life cycle model, it is not formulated
from the supplier viewpoint and does not have a single product as its object.
However, it attempts to describe relationships between companies and consumers

120

I. Geiger

as well as those between companies. So the object examined is always implicitly
the person as the economic participant and not the company. This may explain why
trust and satisfaction, two variables from social psychology, are emphasized as
special “bonding agents” between the parties. As the foundation for their theory, the
model’s authors apply the classic writings of social exchange theory. This is why
they refer to a relationship as early as the ﬁrst phase of a relationship, although this
is not the case in our interpretation of a business relationship. The inevitability of
relationship termination also contradicts our understanding of business
relationships as well as the reality in which e.g. the business relationship between
Bosch and Mercedes-Benz (and its predecessor corporation) has existed since the
early twentieth century and shows no signs whatsoever of coming to an end. But the
most crucial aspect of applying the model in marketing practice may be primarily
its descriptive nature. In particular, phase-based implications for business relation-
ship management are missing.

Instead, we suggest a phase model that is explicitly geared towards action and
takes into consideration different courses of business relationships. It is illustrated
as number III in Fig. 5.4. It shows the supplier’s view (black line) as well as the
customer’s (gray line) and differentiates between the three phases of a business
relationship: entry, defense and termination. The model assumes that some business
relationships are terminated (case a), but that many business relationships have no
foreseeable end (case b). The demands that these three phases place on business
relationship management are vastly different.

In the entry phase (simple dotted line), a supplier (black line) attempts to
demonstrate to the potential business partner the beneﬁts of a transaction (in case
of de facto business relationships from the customer’s perspective) and the beneﬁts
of a business relationship with this supplier. So the supplier has to focus particularly
on generating and communicating a customer beneﬁt. This is especially difﬁcult
when the potential customer has a business relationship with a direct competitor and
the relationship poses high exit barriers for the customer. If the supplier is active in
a relatively stable market, his primary analysis task in this phase is to identify
strategic windows for entry into a relationship to even be able to create a customer
beneﬁt. Depending on the customer’s orientation, sometimes the static view of the
customer beneﬁt and sometimes the dynamic view must be taken. Section 5.2 is
devoted to these analysis and marketing tasks.

The customer and supplier are in the actual business relationship by the time
they enter the defending phase. The commitment of the partners to one another is
determined by the relationship value and switching costs for the customer and by
the customer lifetime value (Chap. 4) and the switching costs for the supplier. Both
dimensions are concretizations of customer beneﬁt and supplier advantage in the
case of business relationship management. As long as the business relationship
remains beneﬁcial to the supplier, he should attempt to control the business
relationship such that the customer also has no reason to terminate the relationship.
Then the dimensions relationship value and switching costs are available to him for
marketing actions (Saab 2007). The associated analysis and marketing tasks will be
discussed in Sect. 5.3.

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

121

The termination phase can occur at any time in an existing business relationship
in which the commitment between the two partners has reached a low point. It can
be initiated by the customer or by the supplier. In our case we will assume the
perspective of the supplier to examine the circumstances under which a supplier
should terminate a business relationship. The reasons for this step include eco-
nomic, organizational and technological factors. Possible reasons for the termina-
tion can be attributed to customer value, meaning the dynamically viewed supplier
advantage, to customer behavior, or to shifting of the ﬁt between customer needs
and supplier services. Section 5.4 will deal with this topic.

5.1.3.2 Reciprocal Effects of Business Relationships with Their

Environment

In addition to the phases in which business relationship management should take on
a different appearance, considerations from a strategic viewpoint regarding recip-
rocal effects of business relationships with their environment play a special role.

On the one hand, the environment can be the market as a micro environment.
Business relationships between the supplier and other customers or between
customers and competitors are then of particular interest. It is important to examine
different parallel business relationships that a supplier has, because there can be
positive as well as negative reciprocal effects between these business relationships.
In an industry in which supplier services demand a high degree of customer trust,
establishing and expanding a business relationship with customer 1 can be an
essential reference for the supplier. It is only the successful business relationship
of the supplier with customer 1 that makes the supplier’s promised performance
plausible to customer 2 and makes him an interesting business partner. The situa-
tion is different when a supplier’s customers fear that the supplier is using resources
that give the existing business relationship value in other business relationships as
well. These resources might even have been developed jointly in the course of the
business relationship, e.g. a special logistics concept or new production technology.
In such cases the supplier has to decide whether to forfeit competing business
relationships or to ﬁnd a way to convince parallel business partners that their rights
are not being infringed upon by activities with competitors. Questions about
handling parallel business relationships will be examined in depth in Sect. 5.5.1.

On the other hand, the macro environment can also be factor, e.g. as societal,
political, legal, economic or technological developments. In regard to the ﬁrst
factors, especially developments towards good governance have impacted business
relationship management over
the last decade. For example, many large
corporations have introduced codes of conduct that narrowly specify how their
own employees can accept gratuities. This gives a supplier much less leeway in
personal relationships. The corruption scandals of recent years and having to deal
with them have led many companies to implement much more stringent transpar-
ency measures. For some companies, this has led to terminating or examining
existing business relationships (Schmitt 2010). Besides these factors, we are inter-
ested especially in economic and technological developments that can be utilized to
beneﬁt a supplier’s business relationships. This happens often by a supplier using

122

I. Geiger

relationships with other business partners to strengthen his own business
relationships with customers (Anderson et al. 1994). By using his network, he can
e.g. integrate technological innovations in his offering, providing customers with
greater value. Section 5.5.2 deals with this strategic component.

5.2

Entry into the Business Relationship: Out-Supplier
Marketing

There are two consecutive steps that a supplier takes when he plans to enter into a
business relationship: First he identiﬁes strategic windows, and second he selects
entry concepts appropriate to the type of business relationship to be entered. As
discussed in Sect. 5.1.2, the customer calculation differs by whether or not the
potential customer in aiming for a business relationship right from the start. From a
marketing strategic perspective, the supplier has to provide the potential customer
with different information needed to make a decision.

5.2.1 Strategic Windows

Example 4: Flying Against the Trend

The year 2009 was not a good one for the aviation industry. Lufthansa
reported 89 % less operative proﬁt than in 2008. Media reports claimed that
British Airways was on the brink of bankruptcy several times. Air Berlin, in
previous years treated as a potential candidate for bankruptcy or takeover was
able to largely avoid this trend. What happened?

The ﬁnancial crisis beginning in 2008 was the dawn of hard times for
many companies. In Germany it was only with the aid of government support
such as reduced-time pay that widespread layoffs could be avoided,
particularly in the manufacturing industry. The result was strict austerity for
most companies. This was apparent in business travel, which fell sharply.
Long trips were replaced by teleconferences and travel guidelines became
more stringent.

These measures hit a certain group of business travelers—ﬂying business
class on Monday morning and on Thursday or Friday evening on domestic or
European routes—particularly hard: management consultants and auditors.
One reaction to the ﬁnancial crisis by the three largest consulting ﬁrms in
Europe—McKinsey & Company, The Boston Consulting Group and Roland
Berger Strategy Consultants—was to refrain from or limit business class on
shorter ﬂights, thus saving costs. And the travel departments and consultants
were instructed to book the cheaper rate when comparable times could be
found for the same route. The consultants—who used to be able to specify the

(continued)

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

123

exact ﬂight time and airline and did not need to look at the price—were now
restricted in their choices: Instead of their favored airline Lufthansa—the
miles ﬂown on business trips and collected in the customer loyalty program
Miles & More were allowed to be used for personal travel—they often had to
ﬂy on the cheaper Air Berlin ﬂight.

These trips were made appealing to the consultants. With a change in
service, Air Berlin was able to establish a real business relationship with
certain business customers or to intensify existing relationships. This
included a blanket agreement with Roland Berger Strategy Consultants,
granting all of the ﬁrm’s employees silver status on Air Berlin. This status
allowed higher baggage limits, guaranteed a seat in the front section of the
plane to be able to deplane more quickly, granted preferential check-in and
security treatment (the so-called fast lane) and a few other beneﬁts. Besides
the ticket prices that are lower than those of Lufthansa, Air Berlin granted the
customer company additional discounts. In return, the consulting ﬁrm agreed
to a quota of ﬂights to be booked on Air Berlin. With the right offers to the
right customers at the right time, Air Berlin used a difﬁcult economic
situation to increase its domestic market share and emerge from the crisis
stronger than before. Roland Berger Strategy Consultants’ quota to be met on
Air Berlin ﬂights continues to apply even now that business class is permitted
again (Unknown 2010).

As Example 4 demonstrates, the timing can be crucial when it comes to entering
into or intensifying a business relationship. Abell (1978) coined the term strategic
window to express this phenomenon. He uses the term to express the time frame
within which the special demands of the market offer an optimum ﬁt for a
company’s resources and capabilities. These times when the ﬁt is right should be
used by suppliers to best serve the respective market.

In the case of business relationship management, the respective market can be a
single potential customer, such as when the supplier is a component supplier to the
automotive industry. But it can also consist of multiple customers and thus multiple
potential business relationships, like in the introductory example, or the market can
be many customers as is the case with suppliers of system technology,
e.g. operating systems. In all of the cases, strategic windows for business
relationships are characterized by the fact that the bonding effect of existing
relationships between potential customers and competitors is particularly weak
during these periods.

Typical situations in which the bonding effect in existing relationships is lower

include the following (Backhaus and Voeth 2010; Schlu¨ter 2000):

(cid:129) Product launch, change in model or signiﬁcant product variation by an OEM
(cid:129) Contracts that are expiring or have been terminated due to conﬂicts in an existing

business relationship

124

I. Geiger

(cid:129) Technological leap by a competing system supplier (e.g. software) that does not

possess consistent downward compatibility

(cid:129) Fundamental change in the sourcing strategy of potential customers due to

internal or external changes in the corporation

(cid:129) Shift in the market balance due to the exit of competitors (supplier shake-out)

and consequential end of business relationships with their partners

In addition to constellations in which existing business relationships can be
replaced or supplemented with new ones, situations are of course also conceivable
in which completely new business relationships can evolve from a new way to solve
a problem. This is always the case when innovations from the macro environment
re-deﬁne the competitive arenas. Such innovations can be of a political-legal nature,
such as deregulation in the energy, telecommunication or transport sector. They are
often the result of technological innovations that enable certain business relation-
ship models in the ﬁrst place. The second case will be illustrated later in Example 7,
“Brushes and rollers no longer needed for facades,” in Sect. 5.5.2.

Because of the fundamental bonding effect of existing business relationships
between competitors and potential customers, observing and promptly identifying
strategic windows is one of the most pressing strategic tasks of business relation-
ship management. This task has to do with strategic foresight (Slaughter 1998).
Companies must learn to detect even weak signals in their environment in time to
be able to recognize such strategic windows (Ansoff 1979). To ensure that this
actually happens,
the identiﬁcation of strategic windows should be a ﬁrmly
anchored organizational task in the company. There are two ways that are particu-
larly well suited: If the company or business unit has its own staff department for
(competitive) strategy planning, it makes sense to assign this special task of
strategic foresight to the department. Otherwise assigning the task to the marketing
or sales manager would also be an option.

A complementary task to detecting weak signals in the company’s environment
is to examine the company’s own capabilities and resources to determine if they can
be used to take advantage of the strategic window. Depending on how potential new
customers see the company, this can mean that the supplier company must be able
to generate and communicate a static or dynamic customer beneﬁt. The next two
sections will discuss ways to generate such a customer beneﬁt.

Finally, using Example 4, utilization of a strategic window will be demonstrated
again. As a result of inﬂuences from the macro environment (dramatic decline in
the overall economic situation), business travel habits of former airline customers
have changed greatly. Many of the corporate customers of the airlines became more
price-conscious and eliminated privileges previously granted to their employees,
such as ﬂying business class. So for the large consulting ﬁrms, for example, this
meant a fundamental change in the sourcing strategy, which was met with some
internal resistance. For Air Berlin, on the other hand, a strategic window opened.
Business travelers previously allowed to ﬂy business class did not consider Air
Berlin, because it does not offer business class on short-haul and medium-haul
ﬂights. But since Air Berlin ﬂies with about the same frequency as Lufthansa, at

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

125

least on many of the domestic routes, and offers a much lower ticket price, customer
demands and Air Berlin’s corporate resources suddenly went together much better.
With additional offers tailored to the customers’ needs, such as the silver card for all
of the consulting form’s employees, Air Berlin was able to generate a true customer
beneﬁt
the consulting ﬁrms and break open virtually closed business
relationships that had existed for years.

for

5.2.2 Entering into Business Relationships Not Planned (De Facto)

by the Customer

As discussed in Sect. 5.1.2, there is a wealth of supplier-customer relationships in
which the supplier is seeking a long-term business relationship right from the start
but the customer’s focus is on the single transaction. If the supplier wishes to
successfully enter into such a business relationship, it is advisable for him to assume
the customer’s transactional view. In regard to the customer beneﬁt that has to be
generated and communicated, this means that the customer must perceive supplier
A’s offering as providing greater net beneﬁt than the comparable offering by the
competing supplier SC. Only then will the potential customer be willing to make an
initial purchase.

So what does the supplier have to do? A glance at the information economics
provides the general direction (Weiber and Adler 1995). A customer is exposed to a
series of uncertainties related to his purchase decision, particularly in regard to
quality and price of the offering. Supplier offerings can be classiﬁed by the potential
to reduce uncertainty. Search goods are offerings for which the uncertainties can be
greatly reduced by searching for information before making the purchase decision.
Many properties of physical products fall into this category. Experience goods, on
the other hand, are offerings for which the quality and price uncertainties cannot be
reduced or eliminated until after the customer has made the purchase. This includes
most services (as opposed to goods). Credence goods are offerings for which the
customer cannot at all reduce uncertainties. They generally cannot be veriﬁed and
are only revealed in exceptional cases. An example of this is a structure in which
cracks appear 5 years after construction is completed, e.g. because the stability of
the building ground was not properly assessed and part of the building has begun to
shift.

There are different strategies available to a customer to reduce uncertainty
before a purchase. Figure 5.5 provides an overview of the strategies. To limit
uncertainty concerning search qualities, the customer can practice a strategy of
offering-related information search. However, since experience qualities and cre-
dence qualities cannot be veriﬁed until after the purchase if at all, a customer has to
rely on signals as a substitute for information. These are heuristics, meaning
abbreviated decision-making rules that allow conclusions to be drawn about certain
supplier and offer properties but do not guarantee them. A brand name, a corporate
image or a certain price level are mentioned as such signals in publications. Weiber
and Adler (1995) differentiate between information substitutes based on a single

126

I. Geiger

Information 

substitutes that 
apply to multiple 

offerings

Credence 
qualities

Experience 
qualities

Search qualities

Information search 
based on the service 

provided

Information 

substitutes based 

on the specific 

offering

Strategies to reduce 

uncertainty 
1st order

Strategies to reduce 

uncertainty 
2nd order

Strategies to reduce 

uncertainty 
3rd order

Fig. 5.5 Strategies to reduce uncertainty from the customer’s perspective. Source: Based on
Weiber and Adler (1995)

offering or based on multiple offerings, depending on whether the uncertainties that
can be reduced are related primarily to experience qualities or credence qualities.
Since the customer rationale for an unplanned business relationship is initially
geared towards the transaction, it can be assumed that search qualities play a greater
role than in relationships planned by the customer, while the opposite is true for
experience and credence qualities. So the better equipped the supplier is to support
the potential customer’s search for information, the more likely it is that an initial
purchase will occur.

There must be differentiation regarding relevance of the information and the
respective manifestation. If, for example, a potential customer is interested particu-
larly in the physical quality of the product, the respective quality information
(as opposed to information on price and delivery) should primarily be made
available to him (relevance of information). Of course, the information has to
persuade the customer that the supplier’s offer is superior to that of the competitor
(contents of information). For the OEM supplier business, Backhaus and Voeth
(2010) consider the dimensions quality, price, time and place to be offering features
regarding which a supplier has to credibly convey that the customer’s demands are
better met with his offering than that of the competition. A supplier can use all of
the possibilities offered by the marketing toolbox (Kleinaltenkamp and Jacob
2006). This includes providing essential information on offering features (always
relative to the competitor), e.g. with

(cid:129) Product speciﬁcations incl. provable minimum requirements
(cid:129) Quality certiﬁcates

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

127

(cid:129) Cost-beneﬁt calculators
(cid:129) Price assurances, possibly incl. assurance of the (proportional) coverage of the

customer’s switching costs in the event of a system switch

(cid:129) Relevant information on the organizational structure (locations, contact persons)
(cid:129) Relevant information on process organization (logistics, adherence to schedules)
(cid:129) Depending on the type of offering, the supplier will have to provide substantial
information substitutes such as warranties or references. The following Example
5 shows how search and experience qualities can be credibly conveyed:

Example 5: Individual Taste

International Flavors and Fragrances Inc. creates fragrances for industrial purposes.
The company develops and manufactures products for industrial customers, e.g. in
the food industry, who use the aromas in their production processes. Through the use
of toolkits, International Flavors and Fragrances Inc. was able to include the
customer in the innovation process and at the same time give the customer a reason
to subsequently order the products. The customer can use the toolkit to search for the
desired scent solution. Once he has identiﬁed it, he sends the desired scent to
International Flavors and Fragrances Inc. The company then develops a suggestion
for technical production implementation and gives the customer a sample. After a
correction loop, the customer can immediately place an order for the desired
fragrance. (Backhaus and Voeth 2010).

For the initial purchase to become a real business relationship, the supplier has to
ensure that the newly acquired customer sees reasons to purchase again from the
supplier. These reasons can either be speciﬁcally created by the supplier, or they
can evolve during the course of the transaction and later, unrelated transactions.
The reasons created by the supplier include service/product customization, product-
related services, loyalty programs or system lock-in (refer to Chap. 6). The reasons
attributed to repeated exchange are particularly relational variables such as cus-
tomer satisfaction, trust and well established processes in completing transactions.
This is especially relevant in stable business relationships in which differences in
the performance level of suppliers are minimal like those between accounting ﬁrms
and their clients (Hougaard and Bjerre 2009). Only some of the relational variables
can be managed by the supplier, but e.g. professional complaint management
(Stauss 2010, Sect. 6.4.1) can prevent restrictions of these relational variables
from occurring.

5.2.3 Entering into Business Relationships Planned by Both Parties

In contrast to business relationships not originally planned by the customer, where
becoming committed to one supplier occurs slowly, the customer takes a different
view from the start when he is planning on establishing a business relationship. He
is aware that, with the beginning of a business relationship, he is committing to a
supplier. It may not be possible to give up the relationship until the mid-term future,

128

I. Geiger

and it could involve heavy losses. This means that the anticipated time period of the
future exchange relationship is much longer. The potential customer may be able to
reduce his uncertainties in regard to the search qualities of the service exchange by
actively seeking information at the beginning of the business relationship. This
means that the strategies to reduce uncertainties resulting from search qualities
discussed in the previous section are also applicable to planned business
relationships. Because the relationship is intended to be long-term, as the planned
duration increases, the customer focuses more on the experience and credence
qualities. Figure 5.6 illustrates the general relationship. While uncertainties related
to search, experience and credence qualities are similarly pronounced in a business
relationship planned to be short, with a longer business relationship the experience
qualities and even more so the credence qualities of the planned, repeated exchange
of transactions play a greater role. This can be attributed particularly to increasing
uncertainties pertaining to the environment when a longer time horizon is planned.
The purchaser will only choose the business relationship if the supplier is better
capable of conveying the experience and credence qualities of a potential business
relationship with the aid of suitable information substitutes than is the competitor.
This is equivalent to conveying the customer beneﬁt from a dynamic perspective.
Weiber and Adler (1995) claim that information substitutes based on the service
provided can reduce uncertainties attributed to experience qualities. They differen-
tiate between directly and indirectly effective information substitutes. Directly
effective information can be e.g. warranties or a contract that regulates anticipated
future events. Information substitutes that work indirectly, on the other hand, can be
price (as surrogate for quality), product-related advertising, product brands and
references based on performance.

Customer
uncertainty

Uncertainty due to search qualities

Anticipated duration 
of planned BR

Fig. 5.6 Customer uncertainty as a factor of planned duration of a business relationship

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

129

Information substitutes that apply to multiple services help to reduce
uncertainties attributable to credence qualities. The level of awareness of a com-
pany and the company’s reputation play a signiﬁcant role. A supplier’s reputation is
the result of experiences of his customers thus far and other interaction partners,
whereby the experiences do not necessarily have to be those of potential customers.
It is assumed that future transactions and business relationships with this supplier
will be similar to those that have already taken place. So a potential customer relies
on the supplier’s reputation and expects that the supplier will act in the same way
towards him as he has in the past when interacting with others. A customer’s
assessment of a supplier’s reliability is inﬂuenced by information on the develop-
ment of the supplier’s ﬁnancial situation, the strategy he pursues and his legal form,
as well as his hiring and human resources policies and his efforts in regard to
sustainability. Thus a company that markets its services to a high degree within
business relationships is well advised not to underestimate these more global
indicators of his business. From a strategic perspective, these indicators can serve
to reduce the customer’s uncertainty resulting from credence qualities.

In addition to the reduction of uncertainties, the supplier has to take into
consideration another factor in his calculation to generate such a dynamic customer
beneﬁt: the previous business relationship of the customer which he might termi-
nate in an extreme case or which can lose signiﬁcance through establishment of a
new, parallel business relationship. As we have already seen, it is easiest for the
supplier to utilize a strategic window to approach potential customers at a moment
in which the switching costs are as low as possible.

5.3

Defending the Business Relationship: In-Supplier
Marketing

In the phase model of business relationship management, defending a business
relationship is the most important and most frequent situation. As long as a supplier
enjoys a supplier advantage from an existing business relationship or the switching
costs associated with terminating the relationship do not make economic sense, he
will endeavor to defend the existing business relationship. While earlier research
discussed particularly the bonding effect of speciﬁc investments and the associated
switching costs as the reason that a customer remains in a business relationship
(Plinke 1997; So¨llner 1993), more recent studies proclaim that, from the customer’s
point of view, the value dimension of a relationship is primarily responsible for a
customer not switching to a different supplier (Eggert 1999; Geiger et al. 2012;
Saab 2007). Therefore customers prefer remaining in a business relationship when
they want to as opposed to when they have to. The dimension of the customer’s
switching costs should not be neglected though. Sometimes the two dimensions
cannot be unequivocally separated, such as when speciﬁc investments on the part of
the customer have to occur before the relationship value can increase
(Kleinaltenkamp and Ehret 2006). Nevertheless, both dimensions offer essential
approaches to defending a business relationship.

130

I. Geiger

5.3.1 Increasing Relationship Value

When does a customer consider a business relationship to be valuable? Which
factors contribute to the value? Ulaga and Eggert (2006) pursue these questions in
their exploratory examination of corporate purchasing managers in various
industries. They identify three different aspects that a supplier can focus on to
increase the relationship value for a customer (Ulaga and Eggert 2006):

Improvement of the core offering
Improvement of the procurement and interaction process

(cid:129)
(cid:129)
(cid:129) Enhancement of operations of customer

Beneﬁt and cost components are assigned to each of these aspects;

the

components can serve as design approaches.

5.3.1.1 Improvement of the Core Offering
Improvement of the core offering has to do primarily with the original product
quality. This of course means compliance with the customer’s technical
speciﬁcations (meeting quality demands). These speciﬁcations must be fulﬁlled
over time though (quality consistency). If problems occur in this regard, suppliers
are best advised to work with customer teams to ﬁnd a long-term solution. It should
be kept in mind that, to be able to evaluate the parameters meeting quality demands
and quality consistency, a benchmark—usually based on customer expectations—is
needed. Customer expectations change over time though. This is particularly true
for goods having to do with information and telecommunication technology: The
technological advances of the last 30 years have radically changed customer
demands. Such goods often possess characteristics of a system, meaning they are
linked to a system architecture to produce a customer beneﬁt (Backhaus and Voeth
2010). Because of system lock-in, the customer is often forced to stay with a system
supplier to be able to utilize new services. But to ensure that the bonding effect of
such a system is not lost, a system producer is well advised to provide the
technological advances needed to meet customer needs within the system that
arise over time—so the supplier should be aware of meeting quality demands and
ensuring quality consistency.

The following Example 6 illustrates the extent to which the customer’s quality
demands in regard to the core offering of the supplier can be inﬂuenced by the
supplier:

Example 6: From Product Partner to Process Partner

The Lenze group, with 3,000 employees worldwide, is a major German
supplier of automation technology. The product range includes servo drives,
motors, couplings and brakes, but also complete drive systems. By applying

(continued)

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

131

“value engineering,” a customer-speciﬁc, process-based concept
that
considers all cost and beneﬁt components of the customer process when
calculating a customer beneﬁt, the customer’s perception of quality changes
from that of a product partner to that of a process and problem solution
partner.

With the aid of this concept, Lenze was able to save EUR 12,500 with a
procurement volume of EUR 100,000 for one of its A customers in the textile
industry. However, these savings were possible only when the entire job—
previously divided amongst three different suppliers—was taken over by
Lenze. The total amount saved could be attributed to optimized dimensioning
(EUR 4,000), simpliﬁed component assembly (EUR 5,000), process improve-
ment (EUR 2,500), and quicker commissioning through proper training (EUR
1,000).

Lenze was able to emerge as a problem solver due to (a) traditionally
existing mechanical engineering and drive design competence, guaranteeing
the best possible design and dimensioning for the customer’s problem.
Another contributing factor is a scalable product and service program
(b) that facilitates low-cost as well as high-end solutions. And ﬁnally, indi-
vidual customer solutions could be supplied through the acquisition of
completely ready-to-install components from only a few suppliers (c).

Customers also expect their main suppliers to provide a continuous improve-
ment process. This is the only way that a supplier can increase the relationship
value by offering a core service that really is superior. Such a continuous improve-
ment process can occur only on the part of the supplier or as a partnership between
the customer and the supplier. The latter can often be found as R&D cooperations
for new series in the OEM supplier business (Backhaus and Voeth 2010).

In addition to the product quality of the core offering, the associated supply
performance is also signiﬁcant in the customer’s value perception. Adherence to
schedules is interpreted as the supplier meeting agreed delivery dates. Delivery
precision describes the customer’s expectation that each delivery contains the exact
supplier services that the customer wishes to have. Due to increasing coordination
of value-adding processes involving multiple companies and the associated logis-
tics concepts such as just-in-time delivery, a supplier’s delivery performance is
becoming more and more relevant. The reduction of intermediate storage facilities
at many steps of the value-adding process means that producing companies have
lower costs of capital employed. If a supplier cannot maintain the promised supply
performance in such a value-adding chain, the consequence will be high losses to
the supplier and the customer due to production failure. So adherence to schedules
and delivery precision should be considered the minimum requirements. A
supplier’s supply ﬂexibility, meaning his ability to implement short-term changes
in the scope and date of deliveries, greatly enhances his value in a business
relationship.

132

I. Geiger

In the automotive industry, the supply performance of a supplier depends
strongly on his location—being close the customer guarantees advantages. In the
early 1990s, the average distance of an independent supplier to Toyota from its
customer was about one ﬁfth the distance of external suppliers to General Motors.
In addition, Toyota suppliers had ﬁve times as many deliveries, three times as much
personal contact and 25 times as many guest engineers at the customer’s facilities
than did General Motors (Dyer 2000).

Of course every supplier offering has its price, generating costs for the customer
and thus decreasing the customer beneﬁt. Contrary to this, the price as payment for
the service performed is crucial in determining the supplier beneﬁt for the supplier.
So the price should be considered by the customer to be fair. In industries in which
contracts tend to extend over many years, factors that can contribute to the customer
feeling that he is paying a fair price include an annual discount expected by the
customer and (partial) passing on of cost savings that the supplier has beneﬁted
from. Customers also often expect their main supplier to match a competitor’s
lower price when the service is the same.

5.3.1.2 Improvement of the Procurement and Interaction Process
Continuous improvement of the procurement and interaction process includes
supporting service activities in addition to the core offering (service support).
Industrial customers particularly value the supplier’s reaction speed to customer
requests. The more complex the transactions within a business relationship are, the
more difﬁcult it is for both sides to anticipate every contingency. So misunder-
standings should at least be expected. But if a customer can always rely on his
supplier reacting promptly to any difﬁculties that occur, this can be considered to be
an additional value driver in the business relationship. A second crucial component
of service support is information management. When the customer’s wishes
change frequently, the speed at which information is made available is important.
Customers also see the scope of information as important, whereby this often means
more details.

A third, own element of service support is when the supplier takes over activities
that the customer previously performed himself (outsourcing). The supplier then
becomes an outsourcing partner to the customer. Examples of this are when the
supplier takes over storage (vendor managed inventory) or assembly of preliminary
products to build modules. Introduction of simpliﬁed order handling using elec-
tronic ordering systems or the supplier taking over quality assurance tasks
(inspection of incoming goods) are also services that increase the value of the
relationship.

An essential requirement for efﬁcient and smooth cooperation between the
supplier and customer companies is the constellation of the personal relationship
between the persons at the two companies who are communicating with one
another. It has been apparent since earlier studies that choosing a sales employee
with similar personality traits to those of the purchasing manager he communicates
with leads to greater sales success than when their personalities are different (Evans
1963; Schoch 1969).
relationship the

in addition to their professional

If

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

133

communication partners from the supplier and customer companies develop a
personal relationship of mutual regard and understanding, it becomes easier to
understand the customer’s objectives and to ﬁnd quicker and better solutions to the
customer’s problems. Such personal relationships can be promoted with different
relationship nurturing instruments such as ﬁreside chats, invitations to sporting
events, etc. But recently especially larger corporations have introduced stricter rules
(codes of conduct) for the acceptance of personal gratuities from suppliers. For such
personal relationships to be able to evolve, it is essential that both sides have a
certain stability over time of customer contact personnel.

5.3.1.3 Enhancement Operations of Customer
Improving the customer operations may be the greatest area in which to generate
enduring relationship value. Potential starting points for increasing value are the
product development process and the customer’s production process.

Value creation and enhancement during the product development process
of a customer includes the supplier’s participation in management processes such as
target costing and simultaneous engineering. Target costing is a comprehensive
process that develops new products based on market needs. The products are
designed to meet the product features demanded by the market at prices that the
market tolerates (Seidenschwarz 1993). After deducting a proﬁt margin for the
supplier, target costs are speciﬁed as guidelines that the design and development of
the product must comply with. Since target costing is used especially for products
manufactured in series and the depth of added value has decreased over the last few
years for OEMs, integrating the important suppliers in such a process is seen by the
OEMs as being more and more important. Simultaneous engineering describes the
process of parallel, interlinked product development on the part of the supplier and
the customer (Bochtler and Laufenberg 1995). By bringing previously upstream
and downstream development steps into parallel, the customer gains a time-related
advantage. The organizational coordination required for this development concept,
e.g. a uniform development platform for internal cooperation and working with
other companies, serves to avoid discontinuity of media, transmission errors and
incompatibilities (Backhaus and Voeth 2010). Rapid prototyping can also give the
customer time-related advantages, thus increasing the relationship value (Halfmann
and Holzmann 2003; Weiber et al. 2006). When a supplier is capable of quickly
producing simple prototypes, the customer and the supplier can use the prototypes
to quickly make improvements, thus reducing the total time-to-market for the
customer’s products.

Increasing the relationship value by improving the customer’s production pro-
cess is facilitated primarily by the customer saving costs. For example, based on
existing products of the customer, a supplier suggestion scheme can be used to
identify and eliminate dispensable steps in the customer’s production process. If the
supplier has a wide customer base, solutions successful in the industries of the other
customers may serve as creative suggestions for the production process of the
customer in question. Such suggestions on how to improve processes can include

134

I. Geiger

e.g. operating models that help to save maintenance and repair expense as well as
warranty and tool costs.

Regardless of speciﬁc process improvements in R&D and the customer’s pro-
duction, such suppliers provide customers with a special value that the customers
can rely on when they need technical problem solving skills. The technical
solution sought does not have to be related to other transactions between the
business partners.

5.3.2 Increasing Customer’s Switching Costs

A customer’s switching costs are the dimension of loyalty that to a certain degree
force a customer to remain in a business relationship with a supplier. According to
Saab (2007) they can be characterized as direct switching costs and sunk costs of
investments attributed to speciﬁc relationships.

A customer’s direct switching costs are those that are incurred to terminate a
business relationship (termination expenses), to seek a new business partner (search
costs) and to establish a new business relationship (setup costs). These costs cannot
be interpreted as strictly economic values, they should also be seen as the monetary
equivalent of psychological and social expenses (Rieker 1995). To put this into
perspective, it must also be noted that direct switching costs are incurred in full only
when a customer procures a certain service exclusively from one supplier. If this is
not the case, the customer will incur nominal or no search and setup costs. So the
inﬂuence that a supplier has on a customer’s direct switching costs is limited. At
least in the case of long-term business relationships governed by a contract, it may
make sense for the supplier to include in the blanket agreement penalties for
premature termination of the supply relationship (Backhaus and Voeth 2010).

incurs

The customer

switching costs related to relationship-speciﬁc
investments when relationship-speciﬁc investments have not yet been depreciated.
They are referred to as sunk costs (Saab 2007). This is the most common case in the
system business, where the customer consciously ties himself to a supplier for a
certain time (payback period). Sunk costs are incurred e.g. when a company has
purchased from a supplier planning software with various optional extension
modules. After expansion of the business, this software system no longer meets
the customer’s requirements and must be replaced with a new, more powerful
system provided by a different supplier. The portion of the original software that
has not yet been depreciated is considered sunk costs for the customer. To generate
switching costs for the customer due to sunk costs, a supplier basically has several
dimensions of speciﬁc investments available to choose from. These are site speci-
ﬁcity, asset speciﬁcity, human capital speciﬁcity and time speciﬁcity. So the
supplier’s goal should be to get the customer to invest along these dimensions
speciﬁcally for the relationship. If for example the customer has to pay for special
training required for his employees to be able to use the supplier’s service, the
switching costs along human capital speciﬁcity increase. An information technol-
ogy network speciﬁcally for the relationship, e.g. a tailored ordering system

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

135

(hardware and/or software, processes) that the customer at least partially pays for
increases switching costs for asset speciﬁcity.

In conclusion, however, it should be pointed out that a supplier has limited
possibilities to inﬂuence sunk costs through relationship-speciﬁc investments made
by the customer.

5.4

Termination of a Business Relationship by the Supplier:
Exit Management

Although it is generally assumed that a business relationship is an asset to a supplier
and retaining customers makes greater economic sense than new acquisitions
(Reichheld and Sasser 1990), the question has arisen repeatedly over the last
10 years as to whether this supposed wisdom applies unconditionally. The answer
is no. The focus shifts to a different question instead: Under which conditions is it
more beneﬁcial to the supplier to terminate an existing business relationship than to
continue to pursue it? The consequences of terminating the business relationship
must be considered as well. This leads to the question of which ways of terminating
a business relationship best highlight the positive aspects while playing down the
negative effects. These considerations will be examined in the following section.

5.4.1 Termination of a Business Relationship: Reasons

and Consequences

In our phase model of business relationship management, we showed the business
relationship as a “going concern” of a B2B supplier. So the ideal business relation-
ship does not end once it is ﬁrmly established. Rather the business partners again
and again renew their connection and both beneﬁt from it. Such a pattern can be
observed between important suppliers to the automotive industry and the OEMs,
who have business relationships spanning decades.

Besides the various reasons that might induce a customer to terminate a business
relationship, such as when, due to technological leaps, his needs can be better or
less expensively met by a different supplier, there are also reasons that can prompt a
supplier to end a business relationship. Three of the customer’s reasons are of
particular relevance to the supplier:

(cid:129) Customer value
(cid:129) Customer behavior
(cid:129) Customer needs

5.4.1.1 Customer Value as a Reason for Termination
According to a recent study performed by Haenlein and Kaplan (2009), introduc-
tion of customer relationship management (CRM) systems in many companies have
made it much easier—or even possible in the ﬁrst place—to evaluate customers

136

I. Geiger

without unreasonable effort (Haenlein and Kaplan 2009). Such evaluations of
individual customers revealed to companies in different sectors such as retail
banking (Haenlein et al. 2006), logistics (Niraj et al. 2001) and the metalworking
industry (Bowman and Narayandas 2004) that between 20 and 30 % of their
customer relationships were not proﬁtable. These ﬁndings are conﬁrmed by
practitioners (Karle 2008).

But companies should apply their resources in the most proﬁtable and efﬁcient
way. Since for marketing purposes a customer relationship can be seen as an
investment made by the supplier, a company should regularly examine its business
relationships to determine which ones it should continue to pursue and which it
should give up for economic reasons. “Not all customers are worth attracting and
keeping” (Rust et al. 2000, p. 187). The various measures of customer value were
discussed in Chap. 4 of this book. Ideally, the decision as to whether a business
relationship should be continued or not from the supplier’s perspective should be
made on the basis of the customer lifetime value (CLV). The CLV ideally reﬂects
not only the anticipated monetary beneﬁt of a business relationship but also the
resource potential (reference, information, cooperation and synergy potential) of
the respective customer (Tomczak and Rudolf-Sipo¨tz 2006). If for reasons related
to information technology or other operative limitations the CLV is not available to
a company as a present- or future-oriented measure, other indicators should be used
to determine the customer value. One example of such an indicator is a customer-
speciﬁc contribution margin in conjunction with qualitative assessments of the
respective customer’s reference and information potential. In contrast, categorizing
customers by revenue, which many companies do, is misleading (Karle 2008).

Regardless of the metric used to measure the customer value, the decision of
whether the supplier should terminate a business relationship with a low or negative
customer value is comparable to a portfolio decision (Lucco 2008): By ridding the
customer portfolio of unproﬁtable or less valuable customers, resources are freed up
to be invested in promising business relationships (Johnson and Selnes 2004). For
example, the real option approach can be used to support such decision (Haenlein
and Kaplan 2009).

5.4.1.2 Customer Behavior as a Reason for Termination
Besides customer value, the speciﬁc customer behavior can be a second crucial
reason for a supplier to terminate a business relationship. Since on-going problem-
atic customer behavior impairs the customer value as well, it is impossible to
completely separate these two termination reasons. Often over time problematic
behavior begins ﬁrst, and then the customer value is affected. This is why an entire
section is dedicated to customer behavior.

Bumbacher (2000) initiates investigations into this topic and identiﬁes three
groups of problematic customers: (1) troublemakers and beneﬁt ﬁnaglers, (2) those
not fully accountable and (3) potential lawbreakers.

One distinctive characteristic of troublemakers and beneﬁt ﬁnaglers is that
they make aggressive price demands that are completely disproportionate to the
service purchased (Tomczak et al. 2000). These demands can be expressed as

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

137

stipulating close delivery dates, expecting additional service free of charge or being
unwilling to participate in creating the service (Kleinaltenkamp and Ehret 2006).
Another typical trait of troublemakers and beneﬁt ﬁnaglers is their poor payment
behavior (Gawantka 2006). A company expends a disproportional amount of its
resources on the conditions posed by such customers, leading to a loss in customer
value when the problematic behavior persists. And excessively dealing with such
customers can result in less time and personnel available for other customer
relationships, so the others are neglected. When this type of customer behavior
occurs, the company should quickly decide the tolerance level for such behavior
and determine when it would make sense to terminate the business relationship.

People who are temporarily limited in their ability to judge, communicate and
act due to their mental state are considered to be not fully accountable (Bumbacher
2000). These people play only a minor role for business relationships between
companies.

Potential lawbreakers are customers who act in a way that is counter to the law
in business relationships. The bank robbers, thieves and vengeful persons that
Bumbacher (2000) originally meant are not relevant in the context of business
relationship management to industrial customers. The signiﬁcance of this category
increases however, when it includes customers or suppliers who violate or have
violated anti-corruption laws. As many cases reported in the media have shown,
maintaining business relationships with customers who even convey the appearance
of being involved in corruption in their supply relationships can be seriously
detrimental to a supplier company’s chances of survival. For example, after the
corruption scandals at the industrial service provider Ferrostaal AG in Essen
became known on the spring of 2010, essential customers such as Thyssen-Krupp
or the currency printer Gieseke-Devrient scrutinized or even terminated their
business relationship with Ferrostaal (Fasse and Murphy 2010; Schmitt 2010).

5.4.1.3 Changed Fit Between Customer Needs and Supplier Service
A third reason for terminating a business relationship is when the customer’s needs
can be the result of changed customer needs or of different offerings by the supplier.
An example of a supplier terminating a business relationship because of changed
customer needs could be when the customer wishes to reduce his number of
suppliers and thus requests a substantially wider delivery range from a previous B
supplier who does not have the capacity to do this.

The second case often occurs when a supplier company chooses a new strategic
focus. It can happen that the customer needs and the supplier services are no longer
compatible when the main business purpose changes as well as in the event of
divestment of corporate units/parts of the company that were essential
to
maintaining the respective business relationships. However, since such corporate
strategy steps are decided at the highest level of a company’s decision hierarchy,
business relationship management plays only an executive and advisory role in this
type of termination.

Regardless of which side of the ﬁt of customer needs and supplier services has
this reason for termination of a business relationship is the least

changed,

138

I. Geiger

problematic. The supplier may be the ﬁrst to consider terminating the business
relationship, but sooner or later the customer would also have recognized that a
continuation is not in his best interest.

5.4.1.4 Consequences of Supplier Terminating a Business Relationship
A supplier terminates a business relationship for certain reasons. These reasons are
ultimately of an economic nature, meaning that before termination of a business
relationship, a positive effect on utilization of resources and thus on the company’s
success is anticipated. The improvement is to be achieved by using the resources
previously expended for unproﬁtable customers or those who are difﬁcult to serve
to instead better satisfy proﬁtable customers or to acquire new ones (Alajoutsija¨rvi
et al. 2000; Johnson and Selnes 2004). The extent to which this increase in
proﬁtability is actually achieved and not depleted e.g. by costs incurred for disputes
associated with terminated business relationships (Giller and Matear 2001) is
ultimately strongly impacted by how exit management is implemented.

From the customer’s viewpoint, termination of business relationships with
undesired customers can trigger different reactions. The assumption thus far has
been that this practice could lead to spiraling negative word of mouth (WOM)
(Haenlein et al. 2006). Customers whose business relationship was terminated by
the supplier could damage the supplier’s reputation with negative propaganda.
Amongst the supplier’s current customers, this could cause some of them to
terminate their business relationship with the supplier. And potential new
customers may be more inclined to perform transactions and possibly enter into a
business relationship with a competitor.

But on the other hand, exactly the opposite effect can happen: Existing
customers perceive their supplier to be serious, increasing the resources expended
for his proﬁtable and valued customers. The few empirical studies that examined
whether WOM has positive or negative effects for the supplier when the supplier
terminates a relationship revealed that both occurred (Haenlein and Kaplan 2009,
2010).

5.4.2 Communication Strategies to Terminate a Business

Relationship

When a company decides to end a business relationship, it is confronted with a
choice of communication strategies. Falling back on research on dissolving per-
sonal relationships, Alajoutsija¨rvi et al. (2000) developed a typology of potential
communication strategies, shown in Table 5.1.

They examine various communication strategies according to the dimensions of
(indirect, direct) and interpersonal/interorganizational orientation
directness
(partner-oriented, self-oriented). Indirect strategies are those that do not explicitly
communicate to the partner the wish to terminate the business relationship, but
instead the supplier’s behavior changes in a way that makes it apparent to the

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

139

Table 5.1 Communication strategies to terminate a business relationship

Indirect

Direct

Disguised exit
Silent exit
Communicated
exit
Revocable exit

Voice

Partner-oriented

Pseudo de-escalation
Fading away
Negotiated farewell

Mutual state of relationship
talk
Changing the relationship

Self-oriented

Cost escalation, signaling
Withdrawal
Fait accompli, attributional
conﬂict
Diverging state-of
relationship talk
Changing the partner

Source: Based on Alajoutsija¨rvi et al. (2000)

customer that a continuation of the business relationship is not desired. Indirect
strategies can be either disguised or silent.

Pseudo-deescalation (partner-oriented) is when the supplier expresses to the
customer the wish to change the business relationship but he actually means
termination. This way he gives the customer’s company and the negotiating person
a way to save face. Cost escalation and Signaling are, on the other hand, self-
oriented concealment strategies. Cost-escalations are one-sided supplier activities
intended to make transactions so expensive or otherwise unattractive to the cus-
tomer that the customer refrains from continuing the business relationship. The
supplier can increase prices, invoice services previously provided free of charge, or
change delivery conditions to payment in advance when the customer’s poor
payment behavior is a crucial reason for terminating the business relationship. In
contrast, signaling means conveying to the company through third parties from the
two companies’ environment or through the media that the supplier is no longer
interested in continuing the business relationship.

Fading away and withdrawal are two of the indirect, tacit communication
strategies. Fading away means that both parties implicitly understand that the
business relationship has ended, but neither party addresses it openly. The beneﬁt
of this solution is that there is no intention to harm the partner and the partner can
save face. With withdrawal, the supplier expresses his intentions by changing his
behavior. Less frequent and less open communication are signs of such an
approach.

With direct communication strategies to terminate a business relationship, the
object to be communicated—termination of the business relationship—is made
explicit. If the supplier company intends by all means to end the relationship
(communicated exit), this can happen either by communicating accomplished
facts (fait accompli solution) or by a kind of negotiated farewell. In the ﬁrst
case, it is likely that culprits will be sought and blame placed, and that costly
legal disputes regarding responsibility for and modalities of the termination will
arise. For exactly this reason, some companies have begun to include an arbitration
clause in their contracts when they enter into a business relationship. An arbitration
court can settle disputes more quickly and less expensively than ordinary courts.
But if both parties realize that dissolution of the business relationship is unavoid-
able, a negotiated farewell can save both parties time, money and bother.

140

I. Geiger

If the supplier company is willing to maintain the business relationship despite a
change in his business partner’s behavior, the communication is considered a
revocable exit strategy. Alajoutsija¨rvi, Mo¨ller and Ta¨htinen (2000) call the
partner-oriented approach “consensual discussions on the state of the business
relationship” (Alajoutsija¨rvi et al. 2000, p. 1275), because the purchaser attempts
to include new insight on the customer in his assessment of the situation. In the case
of one-sided discussions on the state of the business relationship on the other
hand, the supplier without stating his motives asks his customer to change his
behavior under threat of terminating the relationship.

In addition to indirect and direct communication strategies to terminate the
business relationship, Alajoutsija¨rvi et al. (2000) include the voice strategy in
their classiﬁcation. The focus here is not on dissolution of the business relationship
but on avoiding conﬂicts that have occurred in the business relationship. So it will
not further occupy us at this point.

Which of these communication strategies a company should choose is strongly
dependent on the external circumstances, on the reason for terminating the business
relationship and on the potential consequences. These consequences affect the
technical and legal course of the relationship as well as the ripple effect, which
determines the manner in which the separation is perceived by third parties (other
customers, cooperation partners, suppliers, employees, etc.). If a supplier has a
limited number of customers, an elegant, partner-oriented termination is more
important than for a supplier who has many customers. This also applies when
the customer plays a relatively signiﬁcant role in the supplier’s network with his
other business partners. Negative WOM that may result from a messy separation is
weighted higher in this situation than when the relationship with an insigniﬁcant
customer is terminated. When choosing between direct and indirect communication
strategies, the cultural background of the companies involved plays an important
role in regard to the effectiveness and consequences of the strategies. Especially in
cultures in which it is essential to save face, indirect strategies are beneﬁcial
(Gu¨nthner 1993; Shi 2003). Another criterion in the decision on whether to pursue
direct or indirect strategies is the urgency of termination: Only the direct
alternatives ensure quick termination. If the supplier’s corporate network is rela-
tively small and close-knit, meaning that the acting persons will encounter one
another again and again in various functions over the course of their professional
lives—this is the case in the paper industry—partner-oriented communication
strategies are more appropriate in that they minimize the negative reputation effects
for all of the parties involved.

5.5

Business Relationships and the Corporate Network

Another task of business relationship management, in addition to phase-speciﬁc
management of the business relationship itself, is the consideration of factors
outside of the business relationship. The last section of this chapter deals with
two types of such factors: inﬂuences between competing business relationships and

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

141

Supplier 1

Supplier 2

Supplier 1

Supplier 2

Comple-
mentary
supplier

Supplier

R&D 
coopera-

tion partner

Comple-
mentary
supplier

Customer 1

Customer 2

Competition

R&D 
coopera-

tion

partner

Supplier

R
B

Customer

Customers' customers

Customers' customers

Parallel business relationships

Business relationship as part of network

Fig. 5.7 Parallel business relationships and the business relationship as part of the network

the effect of network participants (cooperation partners, suppliers) in the business
relationship examined. Figure 5.7 illustrates both cases.

5.5.1 The Business Relationship as Part of the Corporate Network:

Handling Parallel Business Relationships

From a strategic perspective, three sets of issue play an essential role when
examining parallel business relationships:

(cid:129) Prioritization of customers/business relationships when resource bottlenecks

occur

(cid:129) Protection of relationship-speciﬁc values
(cid:129) Decision on either/or business relationships

These will be explained in detail.

5.5.1.1 Prioritization of Customers When Resource Bottlenecks Occur
As we saw in the discussion on a supplier terminating business relationships, the
decision on priority handling of business relationships is signiﬁcant for the supplier
company’s efﬁciency of resource utilization. Basically, the business relationships
of the greatest value to the company should be granted the most time and effort.

For standard operation, meaning regular business without great environmental
internal segmentation of business relationships makes sense. The

impact,

142

I. Geiger

segmentation determines how much attention a customer should generally receive.
Segmentation can be founded e.g. on an ABC analysis (Chap. 4) based on CLV or
the contribution margin. Depending on the homogeneity of the customer structure,
it may be beneﬁcial to take into consideration certain speciﬁcs of the customer’s
industry when allocating resources. So for a machine tool manufacturer it may
make sense to give the same care to a medium-sized customer in the chemical
industry with a high need for customization as to a very large automotive customer
with a high customer value and low customization. Without the business e.g. of the
chemicals customers, the company would record a loss, while the automotive
customers ensure secure, long-term capacity utilization. Competitive relationships
at the company’s own market stage as well as at the customer’s market stage should
be taken into consideration when prioritizing individual customers.

A special situation can occur in regard to handling parallel business relationships
when a company experiences a bottleneck for its own core service at the purchaser
level. This was the case, for example, on the global market for industrial gas
turbines and compressors from 2006 through 2008. Because of capacity bottlenecks
in manufacturing, customers who wished to purchase these capital goods had to
wait over 2 years for delivery of their orders. A similar phenomenon could be
observed in the market for high-purity silicium, the basic material used to produce
photovoltaic cells, where the demand soared to an unprecedented level. Following
the global ﬁnancial crisis in 2007–2009, many suppliers to the automobile market
were not capable of meeting the leap in demand that came in 2010–2011. In such a
situation, a supplier is faced with the decision of how much of his service he offers
to which customers.

Prioritizing customers when there is a bottleneck of the core service requires
especially prudent behavior. It is particularly crucial that the method chosen
promotes understanding for the supplier’s behavior on the part of the most impor-
tant customers during and after the bottleneck, so the business relationships are not
harmed. Customers should feel that they are being treated fairly. So short-term
opportunistic utilization of a temporary advantage in the supplier market is usually
ruled out.

Figure 5.8 shows our suggestion for a prioritization process that is as consistent
as possible for all customers and applies the same decision-making criteria. These
criteria can include the (higher) price for the core service, consideration of certain
clauses in existing contracts, the customer value (CLV), the duration of the business
relationship so far,
the customer’s willingness to make relationship-speciﬁc
investments or certain external factors.1 When a supplier begins negotiating greater
delivery quantities with his various customers, these previously speciﬁed criteria

1 This would be the case in the event of a global epidemic like swine ﬂu in the winter of 2009/2010,
when a large quantity of vaccine has to be produced in a very short time and the vaccine
manufacturers were dependent on a shortage of primary product for their production. The
manufacturer of the primary products could not afford to apply different criteria to serving his
customers in such a situation; public pressure would force him to grant priority delivery to the
vaccine producer.

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

143

Possible prioritization criteria

e
c
i
r
P

 
:
1

V
L
C

 
:
2

R
B

 
f
o

 

h
t
g
n
e
L

 
:
3

t
c
a
r
t
n
o
C

 
:
4

7
-
 

1

 
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c
 
y
b

Maximum capacity

Customer prioritization and capacity 

division by supplier

Cap. for 
customer

1

Cap. for 
customer 2

Cap. for 
customer 

Cap. for 
customer 

Cap. for 
customer 5

Cap. for 
customer 

Cap. for 
customer 

3

4

6

7

(b) Possibly information on serving of other customers

(a) Information on prioritization criteria 

Customer 1

 
t
n
e
m

l
l
i
f
l
u
f
 
a
i
r
e
t
i
r

C

Fig. 5.8 Prioritization for temporary supply bottlenecks

should serve as the guiding principles for the supplier and should always be
complied with. Depending on the extent to which a customer meets the respective
criteria (left side of the illustration), he should receive more or less of the requested
core service (center of the illustration).

To ensure that the customer perceives that he is being dealt with fairly (Kumar
et al. 1995) and that despite the fundamentally unsatisfactory situation the customer
is ultimately being satisﬁed, the applied prioritization criteria should be revealed.
Then the customer can understand why he was being treated the way he was. When
there is greater market transparency, it may be beneﬁcial to explicitly explain the
degree to which the quantities demanded by other customers were satisﬁed, giving
the customer a means for comparison. Both measures are intended to diminish
customer expectations and to ultimately make the customer more satisﬁed with his
own treatment (Churchill and Surprenant 1982).

5.5.1.2 Protection of Relationship-Specific Values
One feature of particularly intense business relationships is that often values are
created that are beneﬁcial to both partners in the business relationship but that are
also of use to at least one of the partners—often the supplier—in other business
relationships. This is the case, for example, when a pulp producer works with a
selected paper manufacturing customer, having a joint engineering team optimize
his manufacturing process and paper machines such that the paper manufacturer
realizes signiﬁcant savings in the production process. Often a contract is written up,

144

I. Geiger

specifying that such savings are shared by the partners involved. So for the pulp
manufacturer, the savings are an additional source of revenue. In addition, after the
project the supplier could attempt to use the knowledge on the production process
gained in cooperation with this one customer in other business relationships with
the customer’s competitors. This is of course not in the customer’s best interest.
Taking into consideration the cost of the project, the customer would only agree to
the project if the supplier assures him credible exclusiveness. The know-how
obtained through the cooperation should remain exclusively in this business rela-
tionship, at least for a certain time.

A supplier of industrial goods and services will usually have to implement both
external and internal measures to achieve this. The effectiveness of the measures
determines whether or not his customers will agree to such value-generating
projects.

the supplier takes at

External measures are all those that

the company’s
boundaries, particularly in regard to the customer. The primary measure is the
respective cooperation contract, which clearly speciﬁes the partners’ rights and
obligations, whereby special attention is paid to the intellectual property generated
by the cooperation. For example, it should be determined who the owner is of
patentable inventions. It is also common practice to have all employees involved in
the project sign non-disclosure agreements (NDA) covering all customer and
project information. Another measure could be information technology barriers,
designed such that the supplier’s personnel can only gain access to the customer’s
IT systems to the extent that is essential to the project.

Depending on the type of business, an internal measure could be construction of
so-called Chinese walls, imaginary boundaries for information available in differ-
ent parts of the company but that should under no circumstances whatsoever be
brought together. This is the case e.g. in the banking sector or with consulting ﬁrms
when the supplier has two competing customers. Internal grace periods before
employees can change jobs are also internal measures.

5.5.1.3 Either/or Business Relationships
In rare cases suppliers who do business primarily within business relationships are
faced with a difﬁcult choice: The business relationship with customer 1 precludes a
continuing relationship with customer 2, because 1 and 2 are ﬁerce competitors. If
this is to be feared, the supplier is faced with the competitive strategic task of
choosing one of the two business relationships. Not only criteria related to customer
value should be considered, all elements of the strategic analysis should be exam-
ined. The environmental relations of the potential business relationships as well as
the effects on competitors and on current and potential customers should be
assessed.

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

145

5.5.2 The Corporate Network as Part of the Business Relationship:

Value Creation Through Collaboration

With the development of modern marketing concepts, there has been a transition
from the sale of products to the offering of solutions in many industrial goods
markets (Cova and Salle 2008). Because many companies have evolved from
product sellers to solution providers, the signiﬁcance of other participants in the
companies’ environment has shifted: The company in question can contribute many
of the competencies required for the solution only through cooperation with other
value-adding partners. Thus the company’s network takes on a more and more
signiﬁcant role for its own customer relationships. In a paper on the state of business
relationship management, Hunt et al. (2006) go as far as to state the following:
“Network competition best describes the current situation in the auto industry”
(p. 75). Similar tendencies can be detected in the textile, telecommunications and
energy sectors (Kleinaltenkamp and Ehret 2006).

The partner network has two central functions for a supplier company: First, it
impacts the company’s innovation capacity (Gemu¨nden et al. 1996). This is
reﬂected in the business relationships to the supplier’s customers by a greater
customer beneﬁt resulting from improved products and processes. Second, the
network signiﬁcantly affects the ability of a supplier to establish business
relationships in an unknown market (Holm et al. 1999).

5.5.2.1 Partnerships for Innovations
The various types of innovation partners are shown in Fig. 5.9.

•
(cid:129)
(cid:129)
(cid:129)

(cid:129)
(cid:129)

(cid:129)
(cid:129)
(cid:129)

Public  bodies

Subsidies

Political support

Grants

Laws, standards, 
(de)regulation

Co-suppliers

Complementary  know-how

Solution to interface
problems

Consulting  firms

Innovative concepts

Process structuring

Financial, insurance and
legal services

Suppliers, capital goods 

manufacturers

New technologies for 
modules
and systems

Innovation in production 
means

Supplier

Customers
Definition  of new 
requirements

Solution to implementation 
and
market acceptance problems

Reference function

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

Research institutions and 

training  facilities

Research

Training & courses

Qualified personnel

Competitor

Joint basic
research

Setting standards

Joint application for
subsidies  and grants

Distributors, retailers

Information on demand
fluctuations

Information on competitors

(cid:129)
(cid:129)
(cid:129)

(cid:129)

(cid:129)
(cid:129)

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

Fig. 5.9 Network partnerships and their contribution to a business relationship. Source: Based on
Gemu¨nden et al. (1996)

146

I. Geiger

As we can see, a company can look in many very different directions to ﬁnd the
right partners to help strengthen its own business relationships. Following the
illustration clockwise, these include consulting ﬁrms and pure service providers.
With their professionals ranging from consulting engineers and economic and tax
consultants to ﬁnancial advisors, market researchers and management consultants,
they can cover any facet of consulting services needed. They contribute innovative
concepts, such as transfers from other industries. Sometimes it is their services that
make customer beneﬁt in a business relationship feasible in the ﬁrst place. In a
collaboration between AKP Electrical, a manufacturer of control technology and
equipment for power supply and transmission, and the Metaglas plant in Bagnols
(France), AKP was only successful in getting a large order for the complete
overhaul of the power supply to the Metaglas factory because the company
cooperated with the engineering ﬁrm Rossi. It was only by working together that
they were able to convince Metaglas of the necessity of overhauling and then
present the offer that Metaglas chose (Cova and Salle 2008).

Co-suppliers contribute to a company’s innovation capacity by integrating
complementary services previously supplied separately and combining them to
form superior comprehensive services. An example: To strengthen its own business
relationships with customers from the paper industry, the BASF AG business unit
Paper Chemicals has been working closely since 2003 with the pigment manufac-
turer Omya and the paper machine manufacturer Voith, both of which have similar
customers. The goal is to improve the paper quality and reduce the manufacturing
costs for the customer (Fasihi 2003). Example 7 also demonstrates how cooperative
technology development increases value for the customers and the companies
involved.

Example 7: Brushes and Rollers No Longer Needed for Facades

Despite mechanization in many construction-related ﬁelds, many tasks have
remained in the realm of manual labor, such as painting building facades.
This has traditionally been done with brushes and rollers, which—taking into
consideration the rising cost of labor—offers a great potential for savings.
Because of side effects resulting from different sized droplets, spray systems
had not yet been able to penetrate the market.

All of this was to change with the Nespri system, winner of multiple
awards since 2005. The system was developed in a cooperation between the
painting equipment manufacturer J. Wagner GmbH and the largest European
building paint manufacturer Caparol. With its innovative pump and nozzle
technology, the new system achieves an optimized droplet size—the result of
“airless atomization.” The atomizing device and the paint are precisely
attuned to one another. The advantages of this system are: uniform applica-
tion of the paint; no spray mist emissions and little effort required for full

(continued)

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

147

coverage; high working speed and ergonomic working posture; little waste;
and signiﬁcant overall savings for the customers in the handicraft industry.

Because of the system lock-in—the basic equipment costs about EUR
7,000—Wagner as well as Caparol achieved much greater customer loyalty in
the handicraft industry. This would not have been possible with the old
technology (roller and brush). The substantial customer beneﬁts make col-
laborative tapping of global markets appear realistic. And both partners
beneﬁt from the sharing of know-how as well as from more efﬁcient sales
achieved by dovetailing their distribution channels (Garber 2007).

Public bodies can also act as partners in a network. This has to do with political
support for the development of new technologies on the one hand. But it can also
mean the establishment of business relationships into new markets, potentially
granting a supplier greater credibility. The case of the Swedish telecommunications
manufacturer Ericsson, who decided to work on a Japanese standardization com-
mittee in order to establish a business relationship with the Japanese cellular service
provider Tokyo Digital Phone (Holm et al. 1999) is an example of how public
entities can be used as partners.

Technological cooperation as partners with one’s own suppliers is a classic case
in the automotive industry. Since OEMs have drastically reduced their number of
suppliers over the last 20 years, the direct suppliers now have to cover a much wider
range of offerings. To be able to offer their customers innovations, they are forced
to become partners in innovation collaborations with their own suppliers. Without
the collaboration between Hella (supplier of headlight systems) and Osram (manu-
facturer of illuminant systems) it is hard to imagine that the diode lamp would ever
have been developed.

Collaboration between companies and educational and research facilities can
be beneﬁcial from a technological as well as a management perspective. From a
technological perspective, cooperative research at universities or other research
facilities (an example in Germany is the Fraunhofer-Institut) can offer a less
expensive or better way to develop technology, which in turn strengthens existing
business relationships. Examples of such collaborations are the T-Labs of Deutsche
Telekom with the Technische Universita¨t Berlin, and Siemens’ cooperations with
the Technische Universita¨t Munich and the Universita¨t Linz. It may also be
beneﬁcial to conduct training sessions and further education offerings with a
ﬁxed higher education partner (Alajoutsija¨rvi et al. 2000) who may be able to
give training geared towards the speciﬁc business relationship.

Even collaborations with competitors as partners can make sense and have
signiﬁcant impact on one’s own business relationships. This necessity becomes
particularly apparent when new standards have to be set in a market with direct or
indirect network effects
IT software)
(Hardenacke 2005). Fundamental research and tapping a market new to both parties
are ways to potentially collaborate with competitors.

telecommunication,

(e.g.

transport,

148

I. Geiger

Finally, distributors such as logistics service providers and commercial
enterprises should be named as potentially important sources of information on
customers and competitors.

5.5.2.2 Partnerships for Market Access
While partnerships focusing on innovation are primarily intended to strengthen
existing customer
tapping new markets are
established with the intention of entering into new business relationships.

relationships, partnerships for

There are various types of reasons for such partnerships. When entering a market
in a new country, legal aspects often play a vital role. In China and in some
Mideastern countries (Qatar, Oman), a foreign corporation cannot found a local
company in which it holds 100 % of the shares. Instead, it must establish a joint
venture with a local partner if it intends to do more than simply export to the
country. The problem is similar when national legislation dictates local content
laws, meaning that a certain proportion of a ﬁnal product must originate in the
respective country. In the automotive industry, for example, this regularly means
that European suppliers to European OEMs are forced to cooperate with local
partners when they enter foreign markets (China, India, South Africa). This was
the case for BOD Defense, manufacturer of military systems and its European
partners SPP and TBC, who formed local partnerships, such as that with the
University of Sydney, to be able to establish a business relationship with the
Australian armed forces (Cova and Salle 2008). Local content requirements were
an issue here, too.

But even when legal requirements do not force such relationships, cooperation
with local partners can be beneﬁcial for cultural reasons. In the example men-
tioned above, where Ericsson and Tokyo Digital Phone established a business
relationship to construct and operate cellular phone infrastructure, the customer
had reservations about Ericsson’s ability to provide enough qualiﬁed employees
with the required language skills. This is why the customer required that Ericsson
ﬁnd a Japanese partner, which ended up being Toshiba (Holm et al. 1999).

Exercises

1. Which are the different generic strategy options to achieve a competitive

advantage?

2. What is the difference between a competitive strategy and a marketing strat-
egy? How can strategic decisions be categorized in business relationship
management?

3. Name and explain the components that make up the competitive advantage!
4. Explain potential time perspectives of the competitive advantage at the begin-

ning of a business relationship from the supplier’s viewpoint!

5. Explain the three-phase concept of business relationship management and

compare it to other phase concepts in marketing!

6. Discuss the term “strategic window”!

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

149

7. How can supplier offerings be classiﬁed by the potential to reduce uncertainty?

Which strategies for reducing uncertainty are available to the customer?

8. State and explain the individual ways in which a supplier can increase the

relationship value for a customer!

9. Differentiate between direct switching costs and switching costs related to
relationship-speciﬁc investments! From the supplier’s perspective, how can
they be increased?

10. Which central reasons for a supplier to terminate a business relationship have
you learned about? Describe the consequences of such a termination for the
supplier and for the customer!

11. Explain the direct and indirect communication strategies available to a com-

pany to terminate a business relationship!

12. How can customers be prioritized in the event of temporary supply bottlenecks

such that they feel they are being treated fairly?

13. Name and explain the different types of innovation partners available to a

supplier company within his network!

References

Abell, D. F. (1978). Strategic windows. Journal of Marketing, 42(3), 21–26.
Alajoutsija¨rvi, K., Mo¨ller, K., & Ta¨htinen, J. (2000). Beautiful exit: How to leave your business

partner. European Journal of Marketing, 34(11/12), 1270–1289.

Anderson, J. C., Hakansson, H., & Johanson, J. (1994). Dyadic business relationships within a

business network context. Journal of Marketing, 58(4), 1–15.

Ansoff, H. I. (1979). Strategic management (1st ed.). London: Macmillan.
Backhaus, K., & Schneider, H. (2009). Strategisches marketing (2nd ed.). Stuttgart: Scha¨ffer-

Poeschel.

Backhaus, K., & Voeth, M. (2010). Industrieg€utermarketing (9th ed.). Mu¨nchen: Vahlen.
Bochtler, W., & Laufenberg, L. (1995). Simultaneous engineering – Erfahrungen aus der Industrie

f€ur die Industrie. Berlin: Springer.

Bowman, D., & Narayandas, D. (2004). Linking customer management effort to customer

proﬁtability in business markets. Journal of Marketing Research, 41(4), 433–447.

Bumbacher, U. (2000). Beziehungen zu Problemkunden – Sondierung zu einem noch wenig
erforschten Thema. In M. Bruhn & B. Stauss (Eds.), Dienstleistungsmanagement 2000.
Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Churchill, G. A., & Surprenant, C. (1982). An investigation into the determinants of customer

satisfaction. Journal of Marketing Research, 19(4), 491–504.

Cova, B., & Salle, R. (2008). Marketing solutions in accordance with the S-D logic: Co-creating
value with customer network actors. Industrial Marketing Management, 37(3), 270–277.
doi:10.1016/j.indmarman.2007.07.005.

Dwyer, F. R., Schurr, P. H., & Oh, S. (1987). Developing buyer-seller relationships. Journal of

Marketing, 51(2), 11–27. doi:10.2307/1251126.

Dyer, J. H. (2000). Collaborative advantage. New York: Oxford University Press.
Eggert, A. (1999). Kundenbindung aus Kundensicht – Konzeptualisierung, Operationalisierung,

Verhaltenswirksamkeit. Wiesbaden: DUV.

Evans, F. B. (1963). Selling as a dyadic relationship. A new approach. The American Behavioral

Scientist, 65, 76–79.

150

I. Geiger

Fasihi, S. (2003). Paper and printing technology: BASF enters into partnership with Springer.
http://www.dispersions-pigments.basf.com/portal/basf/ide/dt.jsp?

www.basf.com,

setCursor¼1_286703_291129 ([abgerufen am 13.4.2011]).

Fasse, M., & Murphy, M. (2010). Kunden verlieren das Vertrauen in Ferrostaal. http://www.

handelsblatt.com/unternehmen/industrie/kunden-verlieren-das-vertrauen-in-ferrostaal/

3441940.html?p3441940¼all. Accessed 13.4.2011.

Garber, T. (2007). Win-Win-Gewinner spru¨hen vor Ideen. Absatzwirtschaft, 50(1), 28–30.
Gawantka, A. (2006). Anbieterzufriedenheit in industriellen Gesch€aftsbeziehungen (Business-to-

business-marketing). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Geiger, I., Durand, A., Saab, S., Kleinaltenkamp, M., Baxter, R., & Lee, Y. (2012). The bonding
effects of relationship value and switching costs in industrial buyer-seller relationships: An
investigation into role differences. Industrial Marketing Management, 41(1), 82–93. doi:10.
1016/j.indmarman.2011.11.013.

Gemu¨nden, H. G., Ritter, T., & Heydebreck, P. (1996). Network conﬁguration and innovation
success: An empirical analysis in German high-tech industries. International Journal of
Research in Marketing, 13(5), 449–462.

Giller, C., & Matear, S. (2001). The termination of inter-ﬁrm relationships. Journal of Business &

Industrial Marketing, 16(2), 94.

Gu¨nthner, S. (1993). Diskursstrategien in der interkulturellen Kommunikation. Analysen deutsch-

chinesischer Gespr€ache. Tu¨bingen: Niemeyer.

Haenlein, M., & Kaplan, A. M. (2009). Unproﬁtable customers and their management. Business

Horizons, 52(1), 89–97.

Haenlein, M., & Kaplan, A. M. (2010). The emotional consequences of unproﬁtable customer
abandonment – Feeling sorry for the other or good about yourself? In EMAC conference,
Copenhagen.

Haenlein, M., Kaplan, A. M., & Schoder, D. (2006). Valuing the real option of abandoning
unproﬁtable customers when calculating customer lifetime value. Journal of Marketing, 70
(3), 5–20.

Halfmann, C., & Holzmann, H. (2003). Adaptive Modelle f€ur die Kraftfahrzeugdynamik. Berlin:

Springer.

Hardenacke, J. (2005). Die Etablierung neuer Technologien auf Netzeffektm€arkten – Eine

objektorientierte Simulation mit Hilfe genetischer Algorithmen. Hamburg: Dr. Kovac.

Hogan, J. E. (2001). Expected relationship value. Industrial Marketing Management, 30(4),

339–351.

Holm, D. B., Eriksson, K., & Johanson, J. (1999). Creating value through mutual commitment to

business network relationships. Strategic Management Journal, 20(5), 467–485.

Homburg, C., & Krohmer, H. (2009). Marketing management (3rd ed.). Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Hougaard, S., & Bjerre, M. (2009). The relationship marketer. Heidelberg: Springer.
Hunt, S. D., Arnett, D. B., & Madhavaram, S. (2006). The explanatory foundations of relationship
marketing theory. Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, 21(2), 72–87. doi:10.1108/
10610420610651296.

Johnson, M. D., & Selnes, F. (2004). Customer portfolio management: Toward a dynamic theory

of exchange relationships. Journal of Marketing, 68(2), 1–17.

Karle, R. (2008). Stu¨rmen oder tu¨rmen? Absatzwirtschaft, 51(Sonderausgabe zum deutschen

Marketing-Tag 2008), 106–111.

Kleinaltenkamp, M. (2002). Wettbewerbsstrategie. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke (Eds.),

Strategisches business-to-business-marketing (pp. 57–190). Berlin: Springer.

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Ehret, M. (2006). The value added by speciﬁc investments: A framework
for managing relationships in the context of value networks. Journal of Business & Industrial
Marketing, 21(2), 65–71. doi:10.1108/10610420610651287.

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Fließ, S. (2002). Marketingstrategie. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke

(Eds.), Strategisches business-to-business-marketing (pp. 235–282). Berlin: Springer.

5 Strategies of Business Relationship Management

151

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Jacob, F. (2006). Grundlagen der Gestaltung des Leistungsprogramms. In
M. Kleinaltenkamp, W. Plinke, F. Jacob, & A. So¨llner (Eds.), Markt- und Produktmanagement
– Die Instrumente des Business-to-Business-Marketing (2nd ed., pp. 3–82). Wiesbaden:
Gabler.

Kumar, N., Scheer, L. K., & Steenkamp, J.-B. E. M. (1995). The effects of supplier fairness on

vulnerable resellers. Journal of Marketing Research, 32(1), 54–65.

Lucco, A. (2008). Anbieterseitige K€undigung von Kundenbeziehungen – Empirische Erkenntnisse
und praktische Implikationen zum K€undigungsmanagement (Basler Schriften zum Marketing).
Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Moore, G. E. (1965). Cramming more components onto integrated circuits. Electronics, 38(8),

Niraj, R., Gupta, M., & Narasimhan, C. (2001). Customer proﬁtability in a supply chain. Journal of

114–117.

Marketing, 65(3), 1–16.

Plinke, W. (1997). Grundlagen des Gescha¨ftsbeziehungsmanagements. In M. Kleinaltenkamp &

W. Plinke (Eds.), Gesch€aftsbeziehungsmanagement (pp. 1–62). Berlin: Springer.

Plinke, W. (1998). Erlo¨sgestaltung im Projektgescha¨ft. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke (Eds.),

Auftrags- und Projektmanagement (pp. 117–160). Berlin: Springer.

Plinke, W. (2000). Grundlagen des Marktprozesses. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke (Eds.),
Technischer Vertrieb – Die Grundlagen des Business-to-Business Marketing (Vol. 2. Auﬂage,
pp. 3–98). Berlin: Springer.

Plinke, W.

(2002). Unternehmensstrategie.

In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke (Eds.),

Strategisches business-to-business-marketing (2nd ed., pp. 1–56). Berlin: Springer.

Porter, M. E. (1980). Competitive strategy – Techniques for analyzing industries and competitors.

Reichheld, F. F., & Sasser, W. E. (1990). Zero defections – Quality comes to service. Harvard

New York: Free Press.

Business Review, 68(5), 105–111.

Rieker, S. A. (1995). Bedeutende Kunden: Analyse und Gestaltung von langfristigen Anbieter-

Nachfrager-Beziehungen auf industriellen M€arkten. Wiesbaden: Springer Fachmedien.

Rogers, E. M. (2003). Diffusion of innovations (5th ed.). New York: Free Press.
Rust, R. T., Zeithaml, V. A., & Lemon, K. N. (2000). Driving customer equity: How customer

lifetime value is reshaping corporate strategy. New York: Free Press.

Saab, S. (2007). Commitment in Gesch€aftsbeziehungen. Konzeptualisierung und Operationa-
(Business-to-Business-Marketing).

das Business-to-Business-Marketing

f€ur

lisierung
Wiesbaden: DUV.

Schlu¨ter, T. (2000). Strategisches Marketing f€ur Werkstoffe. Berlin: Erich Schmidt Verlag.
Schmitt, J. (2010). Schmutzige Vermittler – Der Ferrostaal-Konzern steht im Verdacht, auch fu¨r
andere Unternehmen Schmiergeldzahlungen organisiert zu haben. Der Spiegel, 65(13), 68–69.

Schoch, R. (1969). Der Verkaufsvorgang als Interaktionsprozess. Winterthur: Schellenberg.
Seidenschwarz, W. (1993). Target costing – Marktorientiertes Zielkostenmanagement. Mu¨nchen:

Vahlen.

Shi, H. (2003). Kommunikationsprobleme zwischen deutschen Expatriates und Chinesen in der

wirtschaftlichen Zusammenarbeit. Dissertation, Wu¨rzburg.

Slaughter, R. A. (1998). Future studies as intellectual and applied discipline. American Behavioral

Scientist, 42(3), 372–385.

So¨llner, A. (1993). Commitment in Gesch€aftsbeziehungen. Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Stauss, B. (2010). Kundenbindung durch Beschwerdemanagement. In M. Bruhn & C. Homburg

(Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement (pp. 411–438). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Tomczak, T., Reinecke, S., & Finsterwalder, J. (2000). Kundenausgrenzung: Umgang mit
unerwu¨nschten Dienstleistungskunden. In M. Bruhn & B. Stauss (Eds.), Dienstleistungs-
management
im Dienstleistungsbereich
(pp. 399–421). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

2000. Kundenbeziehungen

Jahrbuch

–

152

I. Geiger

Tomczak, T., & Rudolf-Sipo¨tz, E. (2006). Bestimmungsfaktoren des Kundenwertes: Ergebnisse
einer branchenu¨bergreifenden Studie. In B. Gu¨nter (Ed.), Kundenwert: Grundlagen – Innova-
tive Konzepte – Praktische Umsetzungen (pp. 127–156). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Ulaga, W., & Eggert, A. (2006). Value-based differentiation in business relationships: Gaining and
sustaining key supplier status. Journal of Marketing, 70(1), 119–136. doi:10.1509/jmkg.2006.
70.1.119.

Unknown. (2010). Back to business class. Spiegel Online. http://www.spiegel.de/wirtschaft/

unternehmen/0,1518,708082,00.html. Accessed 13.4.2011.

Weiber, R., & Adler, J. (1995). Der Einsatz von Unsicherheitsreduktionsstrategien im Kaufprozeß:
Eine informationso¨konomische Analyse. Zeitschrift f€ur betriebswirtschaftliche Forschung,
Sonderheft, 35, 61–77.

Weiber, R., Kollmann, T., & Pohl, A. (2006). Das Management technologischer Innovationen. In
M. Kleinaltenkamp, W. Plinke, F. Jacob, & A. So¨llner (Eds.), Markt- und Produktmanagement
(2nd ed., pp. 83–208). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Business Relationship Management
and Marketing in a European-Chinese
Context

6

Alexander Tirpitz and Miaomiao Zhu

6.1

Introduction

Since the Chinese government started its Going Global Policy (zou chu qu 走出去)
in 2001, Chinese companies have become an important and increasingly visible
source of foreign direct investment (FDI) in the world (UNCTAD 2006, 2010). In
2011, Mainland China had estimated global outward FDI stocks of over 365 billion
USD and FDI outﬂows of over 65 billion USD. Compared to the almost 400 billion
USD of FDI outﬂows from the United States it might seem negligible, but it is
already signiﬁcantly more than Germany’s FDI outﬂows of 54 billion USD in 2011
(UNCTAD 2012, p. 169 ff.). Moreover, a survey of UNCTAD among Investment
Promotion Agencies (IPA) revealed that China was regarded as the most promising
investor home economy for global FDI in 2012–2014 (UNCTAD 2012, p. 21). In
consequence, Chinese ﬁrms become integral business participants in developed
Western economies. Thus, Western management executives are increasingly
challenged with building and sustaining business relationships with Chinese players
not only in China but also outside of China, e. g. in the European Union (EU). At the
same time, Chinese ﬁrms need to adapt to the cultural environment of these
countries and the way business is conducted, as Western ﬁrms had to do earlier
when entering the Chinese market.

Business behavior of Chinese refers to cultural rules and norms mainly rooted in
Confucianism. One of these cultural rules is the strong reliance on personal
relationships, also known as guanxi. As a mixture of personal and professional
relationships implying certain obligations, guanxi determines success in private as
well as in business and inﬂuences the way Chinese perceive business relationships
(Yang 1994). But guanxi is not the only factor inﬂuencing the behavior of Chinese
in business: From a more holistic perspective Confucian values as outlined in the

A. Tirpitz • M. Zhu (*)
School of Business & Economics, Freie Universita¨t Berlin, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: at@GCME.de; miaomiao.zhu@fu-berlin.de

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5_6

153

154

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

book of rites and the commonly known strategic wisdom of Chinese military
strategists like Sunzi (sunzi bingfa—The Art of War by Sunzi; for an English
translation see Sun Tzu et al. (1963)) and Tan Daoji (sanshiliuji. miben bingfa—
36 stratagems: the secret book of the art of war; for a German discussion of the
36 stratagems see e.g., Senger (1992)) do also play an important role.

The Western approach to business relationships is comparatively clinical and
rationality-oriented (Wong and Leung, 2001). Assumptions, expectations and
behavioral patterns of Chinese and Western businessmen hence differ heavily.
Since Casrnir (1999, p. 107) states that changes or adaptations on the part of all
participating individuals are prerequisite for meaningful and mutually beneﬁcial
intercultural communication,
this chapter outlines major cultural differences
between European countries and China as well as their respective business cultures
and provides approaches to the management of European-Chinese business
relationships.

6.2

The Role of Culture in Business Relationships

6.2.1 What Is Culture?

In order to understand the impact of culture on business relationships, it is important
to have an understanding of what culture is. Culture can best be understood as “a
giant, extraordinary complex, subtle computer. Its programs guide the actions and
responses of human beings in every walk of life.” (Hall and Hall 1990, p. 3). Hence,
culture can be referred to as the “software of the mind” (Hofstede and Hofstede
2009, p. 3).

Three layers of culture are commonly distinguished (Schein 1983, 2010):

• Artifacts (e.g., behavior or explicit hierarchies)
• Espoused values (e.g., norms and rules)
• Underlying basic assumptions (views of the world etc.)

Whilst artifacts are easily observed and espoused values can be ﬁgured out, it is
much harder to understand the underlying assumptions of a speciﬁc culture. There-
fore, different researchers (e.g., Kluckhohn and Strodtbeck 1961; Hofstede 2001;
House et al. 2004) derived cultural dimensions displaying these basic assumptions.
In the following section some of these approaches are outlined and implications for
business practice are derived.

When talking about European-Chinese business relationships, not only the
national culture of China but also the organizational culture of our business partners
is of interest to us.

Organizational culture, then, is the pattern of basic assumptions that a given group has
invented, discovered, or developed in learning to cope with its problems of external
adaptation and internal integration—a pattern of assumptions that has worked well enough

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

155

to be considered valid and, therefore, to be taught to new members as the correct way to
perceive, think, and feel in relation to those problems. (Schein 1983, p. 14).

With regard to external adaptation we need to bear in mind that Chinese
enterprises, especially the ones located in the developed regions of the Chinese
East coast and the special economic areas, are increasingly inﬂuenced by Western
business values and practices. In consequence, business practice is changing and
Chinese subordinates in the aforementioned areas, for instance, tend to prefer
cooperative leadership rather than the traditionally applied paternalistic style
(Waldkirch 2009).

Hence, the subsequently presented concepts on cultural dimensions, which help
to identify the underlying basic assumptions, provide general guidance. However,
since these concepts concentrate on national culture, their relevance for a particular
business relationship might differ from case to case.

6.2.2 Concepts of Culture and Cultural Distance

Various attempts to categorize cultures according to speciﬁc dimensions have been
undertaken so far. An early attempt that has been used as a basis for many others is
the social anthropologist approach of Kluckhohn and Strodtbeck (1961) that
outlines six basic value orientations in which cultures differ:

• Relationship to nature
• Beliefs about human nature
• Relationship between people
• Nature of human activity
• Conception of space
• Orientation of time

Among the more business-oriented attempts to reveal global cultural differences
Hofstede’s (2001) study on cultural dimensions and the more recent GLOBE
project (e. g. Chhokar et al. 2007; House et al. 2004) received outstanding attention
in research and in practice. Therefore, we are going to focus on these two concepts
in order to point out major differences between Europeans and Chinese and derive
managerial implications for business marketing. Further, we will take the work of
Hall (Hall 1973; Hall and Hall 1984, 1990) on intercultural communication into
account.

6.2.2.1 Hofstede’s Culture’s Consequences
Hofstede’s model consists of ﬁve cultural dimensions. Each of these ﬁve
dimensions represents a universal value orientation that can be speciﬁed for differ-
ent national cultures. The ﬁrst four dimensions (Power Distance, Masculinity,
Individualism, Uncertainty Avoidance) were derived from a large-scale survey
among employees of IBM subsidiaries in different countries. The ﬁfth dimension
(Long-term Orientation) that derived from the Chinese Value Survey was added

156

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

later in order to account for general differences in the underlying value concepts of
Eastern and Western cultures (Hofstede and Hofstede 2009).

• Power Distance (PDI) is the extent to which the less powerful members of
institutions and organizations within a speciﬁc national culture expect and
accept
that power is distributed unequally (Hofstede 2001; Hofstede and
Hofstede 2009).
Individualism (INV) is the degree of interdependence maintained among the
members of a speciﬁc society (Hofstede 2001; Hofstede and Hofstede 2009).

•

• Masculinity (MAS) measures in how far gender roles within a speciﬁc culture
are clearly distinct with men being assertive and achievement oriented and
women being rather humane and relationship oriented (masculine) or if men
and women are both expected to be humane oriented and less assertive (femi-
nine) (Hofstede 2001; Hofstede and Hofstede 2009).

• Uncertainty Avoidance (UAI) accounts for the extent to which members of a
speciﬁc culture feel threatened by ambiguous or unknown situations and have
created beliefs and institutions that try to avoid these (Hofstede 2001; Hofstede
and Hofstede 2009).

• Long-term Orientation (LTO) is deﬁned as the extent to which a society shows a
pragmatic future-oriented perspective rather than a past-oriented or present-
oriented short-term point of view (Hofstede 2001; Hofstede and Hofstede 2009).

6.2.2.2 GLOBE Study
The more recent GLOBE (Global Leadership and Organizational Behavior Effec-
tiveness) (House 2006; House et al. 2004) project used Hofstede’s dimensions, but
also extended them to the following:

•

Individualism-Collectivism is separated into two individual dimensions:
– Institutional collectivism: “degree to which organizational and societal insti-
tutional practices encourage and reward collective distribution of resources
and collective action” (House et al. 2004, p. 30)

– In-group collectivism: “degree to which individuals express pride, loyalty
and cohesiveness in their organizations or families” (House et al. 2004, p. 30)

• Masculinity has been substituted by

– Assertiveness: “degree to which individuals in organizations or societies are
assertive, confrontational, and aggressive in social relationships” (House
et al. 2004, p. 30)

– Gender egalitarianism: “extent

to which an organization or a society

minimizes gender role differences” (House et al. 2004, p. 30)

• Humane orientation: “degree to which individuals in organizations or societies
encourage and reward individuals for being fair, altruistic, friendly, generous,
caring, and kind to others” (House et al. 2004, p. 30)

• Future orientation: “degree to which individuals in organizations or societies
engage in future-oriented behaviors such as planning, investing in the future,
and delaying gratiﬁcation” (House et al. 2004, p. 30)

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

157

• Performance orientation: “extent

society
encourages and rewards group members for performance improvement and
excellence” (House et al. 2004, p. 30)

to which an organization or

Much more interesting than the fact that GLOBE identiﬁed further dimensions,
is the project’s approach to ask for values (Should Be) as well as for practices (As
Is). For China this revealed, for instance, large discrepancies concerning the actual
(practice) Power Distance and as it should be (value). This indicates that Chinese
managers are rather tolerant towards unequal power distribution in society, but do
call for more equality anyway. The GLOBE authors (Fu et al. 2007) do explain this
by the internal (traditional Chinese values) and external forces (Western inﬂuences)
contemporary China is facing. Thus, Chinese managers seem to undergo changes in
their value orientations that have to be taken into consideration for European-
Chinese business relationships, as well.

6.2.2.3 Use of These Models
Somehow appearing in all of these frameworks, individualism-collectivism and
power distance seem to be dimensions with an outstanding notion in understanding
cultural variations (Thomas 2008).

The dimension individualism-collectivism has been broadly discussed and
received utmost attention by many researchers (Berry et al. 2011; Genkova 2012;
Singelis et al.1995). As Pornpitakpan (1999) shows, this dimension or its represen-
tation in a certain culture respectively is also important for the perception of
adaptive behavior within intercultural business relationships. Following his
ﬁndings, collectivist cultures might perceive a high degree of adaptation of their
business partners as positive, individualist cultures as rather negative. In conse-
quence, an adaptive approach to business relationships is more likely to be success-
ful for Westerners, whereas Chinese should avoid too heavy adaptation.

An extension of the individualism-collectivism dimension, that needs to be
considered in the context of business relationships with Chinese, is furthermore
the one of horizontal and vertical
individualism or collectivism respectively
(Singelis et al. 1995).

Vertical collectivism includes perceiving the self as a part (or an aspect) of a collective and
accepting inequalities within the collective. Horizontal collectivism includes perceiving the
self as a part of the collective, but seeing all members of the collective as the same; thus
equality is stressed. Vertical individualism includes the conception of an autonomous
individual and acceptance of inequality. Horizontal individualism includes the conception
of an autonomous individual and emphasis on equality (Singelis et al. 1995, p. 240).

Not identically but rather similar is GLOBE’s distinction between societal and
in-group collectivism. Considered together with the representation of the power
distance dimension in all the above-cited models, different European and Chinese
understandings of how resources and power should be distributed can be revealed.
In intercultural business relationships variations in these cultural dimensions might

158

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Table 6.1 Outline of potential cultural impacts on business relationships

Hofstede

Collectivism
vs. individualism

Power distance
Long-term
orientation
Uncertainty
avoidance
Masculinity
vs. femininity

GLOBE

Institutional
collectivism
In-group
collectivism
Power distance
Future
orientation
Uncertainty
avoidance
Gender
egalitarianism
Assertiveness
Performance
orientation
Humane
orientation

Potential impact on. . .
Status of buyer and seller
Perception of degree of adaptation (Pornpitakpan
1999)

Status of buyer and seller
Perception and understanding of success in a
business relationship
Instruments applied in business relationships
(e.g., contracts)
Status of women in business
Competitive vs. cooperative attitude towards
business relationships
Negotiation behavior (Lu¨gger et al. 2014)

Source: Based on Rothlauf 2012

lead to different roles, status allocations and performance expectations among
buyers and sellers.

The following table puts the dimensions of Hofstede and GLOBE in relation to
impacts on European-Chinese business

each other and outlines potential
relationships (Table 6.1).

In addition, based on Hofstede’s cultural dimensions, the cultural distance
between to cultures can be assessed by means of an index (Kogut and Singh
1988; Shenkar 2001). Admittedly, the cultural distance index is only meaningful
as a very broad comparison at the national level and care has to be taken in its
interpretation (Thomas 2008). However, it has been shown that cultural distance,
e.g., has an impact on the choice foreign market entry mode (Kogut and Singh
1988). Furthermore, the index indicates a large cultural distance and hence many
potential pitfalls within European-Chinese business relationships.

However, as Casrnir (1999, p. 101) states:

Nowhere did such conceptual models explain or help us understand how, why and when
individuals overcame their differences in actual intercultural dialogic interactions.

Thus, these models should serve as a starting point for understanding cultural
differences. Situational and individual factors of the actual business relationship,
e.g. industry norms or the educational background and personal experiences of the
interacting managers need consideration. As already stated above, Chinese busi-
nesspeople are increasingly inﬂuenced by Western business practices in terms of
international standards, regulations, etc. Western practitioners doing business with
training or coaching by their
China are often provided with cross-cultural
companies. Furthermore, Western businesspeople
increasingly emphasize
relationships and cooperation and seem to move in the direction of Guanxi-type

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

159

systems throughout
the twenty-ﬁrst century (Lovett et al. 1999). However,
differences will certainly remain and rapid cultural convergence must not be
expected (Ronen and Shenkar 2013).

6.2.3 Cross-Cultural Communication

Since “Culture is Communication” (Hall and Hall 1990, p. 3) it is not only
important to understand universal cultural value orientations and differences deriv-
ing from these as outlined above. It is furthermore essential to be aware of different
communication patterns applied by Westerners and Chinese.

Hall and Hall (1990) propose to divide communication into three parts:

• Words as the medium of business, politics and diplomacy
• Material things as indicators of power and status
• Behavior

representing people’s

feelings

and techniques

for

avoiding

confrontation

This division of communication indicates that not only the spoken word but also
material things and behavior have to be taken into account when interpreting
communication, especially in an intercultural context. Therefore, Hall and Hall
(1990) point out that communication differs between cultures with regard to the
following aspects.

6.2.3.1 High Versus Low Context
Most Western cultures can be deﬁned as being cultures of low-context communi-
cation, whereas China is one of high-context.

A high-context (HC) communication or message is one in which most if the information is
either in the physical context or internalized in the person, while very little is in the coded,
explicit, transmitted part of the message. A low-context (LC) communication is just the
opposite; i.e., the mass of the information is vested in the explicit code. Twins who have
grown up together can and do communicate more economically (HC) than two lawyers in a
courtroom during trial (LC), a mathematician programming a computer, two politicians
drafting legislation, two administrators writing regulation, or a child trying to explain to
his mother why he got into a ﬁght. (Hall 1989, p. 91).

The different positions Westerners and Chinese hold on the high-low-context-
continuum do regularly show in business meetings or negotiations. While Western
European executives, especially Germans, tend to communicate in a very direct,
explicit way, Chinese do usually communicate rather implicitly, indirectly. For
instance, Chinese would never express criticism or the refusal of an offer directly,
but indirectly by stopping the negotiation or simply not getting back to the potential
business partner. This behavior can be explained by traditional Chinese values like
harmony and face, which will be outlined below.

160

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

6.2.3.2 Space
The perception of space is also determined by culture. Space and related boundaries
begin with an individual’s physical boundary (skin), continue with one’s personal
space and end with one’s territory.

Territoriality is especially developed in the Germans who tend to occupy places
and possessions and label them “mine”. Furthermore, in business, e. g., ofﬁce space
indicates power and status.

The personal space of a person, usually described as an invisible bubble around
him or her, determines how much distance people keep from each other. A
Penetration of this private zone makes people feel uncomfortable or even being
offended. For Northern Europeans this comfort zones is generally quite large,
whereas it is much smaller in the South of Europe as well as in Asia. Moreover,
space does also include auditory, olfactory, thermal or kinesthetic screening and not
only visual. For instance, Germans tend to feel easily disturbed by loud noise,
whereas this is usually not the case for Chinese.

In consequence, the appropriate distance that has to be kept to strangers and
business partners differs signiﬁcantly and executives have to be aware of the
communicative notion of space in order to avoid misinterpretations (Hall and
Hall 1990, p. 10 ff.). For instance, Chinese tend to avoid body contact like
handshakes or hugs, but they do usually not feel uncomfortable if they have to
stay close to strangers in an elevator or public bus. Contrary, Western Europeans
tend to feel rather uncomfortable in a crowed elevator or bus, but are usually used to
body contact with acquaintances, friends and family members.

6.2.3.3 Time
According to Hall and Hall (1990) especially the cultural determined time systems
of monochronic and polychronic time are relevant to international business.

In monochronic cultures, time is experienced and used in a linear way - comparable to a
road extending from the past into the future. Monochronic time is divided quite naturally
into segments; it is scheduled and compartmentalized, making it possible for a person to
concentrate on one thing at a time. In a monchronic system, the schedule may take priority
above all else and be treated as sacred and unalterable (Hall and Hall 1990, p. 13).

Northwestern European countries like Germany are monochronic cultures. And
everyone who attended business meetings with Germans knows that they do highly
appreciate punctuality and strict schedules. In contrast, Asian cultures like China
are polychronic time systems.

Polychronic time is characterized by the simultaneous occurrence of many things and by a
great involvement with people. There is more emphasis on completing human transactions
than on holding to schedules. For example, two polychronic Latins conversing on a street
corner would likely opt to be late for their next appointment rather than abruptly terminate
their conversation before its natural conclusion. Polychronic time is experienced as much
less tangible than monochronic time and can better be compared to a single point than to a
road (Hall and Hall 1990, p. 14).

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

161

Table 6.2 Patterns distinguishing monochronic and polychronic time systems

Monochronic people

Do one thing at a time
Concentrate on the job

Take time commitments (deadlines,
schedules) seriously
Are low-context and need information
Are committed to the job

Adhere religiously to plans
Are concerned about not disturbing others,
follow rules of privacy and consideration

Show great respect for private property,
seldom borrow or lend
Emphasize promptness
Are accustomed to short-term relationships

Source: Based on Hall and Hall (1990)

Polychronic people

Do many things at once
Are highly distractible and subject to
interruptions
Consider time commitments an objective to be
achieved, if possible
Are high-context and already have information
Are committed to people and human
relationships
Change plans often and easily
Are more concerned with those who are closely
related (family, friends, close business
associates) than with privacy
Borrow or lend things often and easily

Base promptness on the relationship
Have strong tendency to build lifetime
relationships

The following table contrasts monochronic and polychronic time systems by

exemplifying aspects of the respective behavioral patterns (Table 6.2).

Thus, when communicating in a cross-cultural setting the involved parties have
to be aware of the culturally determined frame of references of either party.
Drawing on different aspects of (cross-cultural) communication, Browaeys and
Price (2011) suggest a model of cross-cultural communication that takes into
account the knowledge, experience, norms and values and assumptions as the
frames of reference of the communicating parties. Furthermore, they outline four
key communication ﬁlters (verbal and non-verbal language, style of thinking and
communicating, stereotypes, relationships), which inﬂuence the way an intended
message is received by either party. Consequently, it is not only necessary to
understand basic assumptions, norms and values, and communication patterns,
but also the notion of relationships (Fig. 6.1).

6.2.4 Cultural Differences Between Europe and China

In a European-Chinese business context several cultural differences occur, espe-
cially when we take into account that there is not one European culture, but several
national cultures to be considered. Figure 6.2 depicts cultural differences between
selected European countries and China as scored on the Hofstede dimensions.

For Germany and China this reveals big differences in the underlying basic
assumptions that manifest in values and artifacts. While we have the same score in
Masculinity (MAS), there are big differences in all the other dimensions:

162

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Key Communication Filters

Message intended

Message received

LANGUAGE: 

verbal and 
non-verbal

STYLES 

of thinking and 
communicating

STEREOTYPES

RELATIONSHIPS

Frame of 
reference

(cid:129) Knowledge
(cid:129) Experience
(cid:129) Norms/values
(cid:129) Assumptions

Frame of 
reference

(cid:129) Knowledge
(cid:129) Experience
(cid:129) Norms/values
(cid:129) Assumptions

Message received

Message intended

Sender/Receiver

Europe

Message

Sender/Receiver

China

Fig. 6.1 Model of cross-cultural communication. Source: Based on Browaeys and Price (2011,
p. 276)

• Germany scores rather low in Power Distance (PDI), China rather high.
• Germany scores rather high in Individualism (INV), China rather low.
• Germany scores rather high in Uncertainty Avoidance (UAI), China rather low.
• Germany scores
low in Long-term Orientation (LTO), China

rather

extremely high.

Despite the differences between the Chinese culture and the selected European
ones, the Hofstede scores do also reveal the aforementioned substantial differences
between these European national cultures. The GLOBE study even identiﬁed
different cultural clusters within Europe (Chhokar et al. 2007, p. 13), which share
similar values: Nordic Europe (Denmark, Finland, Sweden), Germanic Europe
(Austria, Germany, Netherlands, German-speaking Switzerland), Eastern Europe
(Albania, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Poland, Russia, Slovenia) and
Latin Europe (France, Israel, Italy, Portugal, Spain, French-speaking Switzerland).
Hall and Hall (1990) do also describe certain differences in the way, for instance,
Germans and French communicate even though they are neighboring countries.
Chinese doing business with Europeans need to be prepared to ﬁnd different
cultural settings in each country and not one common European culture. Europe
shares historical events and a common cultural basis, e.g. Romanic language roots.
At the same time there is also a wide range of separating historical events, like
World War I and World War II, leading to different self-perceptions and basic
assumptions.

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

163

Fig. 6.2 Comparison of selected European countries and China based on the Hofstede dimensions
(DE Germany, FR France, NL Netherlands, ES Spain, UK United Kingdom, IT Italy). Source:
Based on Hofstede 2001

Furthermore, the GLOBE study (Chhokar et al. 2007; House et al. 2004) helps us
to better understand changes occurring in European and Chinese cultures, since not
only practices (As Is) but also Values (Should Be) have been measured. In some
dimensions this reveals huge discrepancies and hence recent changes in cultural
aspirations. The following ﬁgure depicts the GLOBE scores for China and for
Germany (West) as one of the major economies in Europe (Fig. 6.3).

By comparing the As Is- and Should Be-scores for Germany, Brodbeck and Frese
(2007) come to the conclusion that German managers “would like to get rid of the
many rules, regulations and constraints” (p. 163), “wish to abandon the traditional
“tough on the person” approach” (p. 163), feel too little performance orientation in
their society and show a “Zeitgeist of Consolidation” (p. 163) with regard to future
orientation. Furthermore, Germany ranks low on the Collectivism dimensions and

164

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Fig. 6.3 Values (Should Be) and Practices (As Is) in Germany (West) (DE) and China (CN).
Source: GLOBE study, Based on House et al. (2004)

the differences between values and practices reﬂect the “ideal of a “Gemeinschaft”
and the social welfare state in Germany” (p. 164). On the other hand, since
“humane orientation is seen to be taken care of by state institutions”, “Getting
the task done, minimizing errors, and achieving high-quality standards seem to be

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

165

more important at work than compassion and interpersonal relationships” (p. 165).
In addition, Gender Egalitarianism is highly favored in Germany, but not practiced
in the same way yet. This strong aspiration of Germans for more Gender Egalitaria-
nism only recently led to a government’s decision to introduce a women’s quota for
supervisory boards of listed companies from 2016.

For China the comparison of As Is- and Should Be-scores has been done by Fu
et al. (2007). For Performance Orientation Chinese rank rather high, but the
discrepancy between As Is and Should Be are low compared to other countries.
Fu et al.’s (2007, p. 888) explanation is that “Chinese people think good perfor-
mance is already highly encouraged” and that “the Chinese being more collecti-
vistic, may not like extreme emphasis on encouraging individual performance”. In
contrast to Hofstede’s long-term orientation, China ranks middle for As Is-Future
Orientation and very low for Should Be-Future Orientation, since “the current
situation in China discourages people to think long-term.” (p. 888). Assertiveness
shows a high discrepancy between the rather low As Is-score and quite high Should
Be-score. According to Fu et al. (2007) this could be explained by the still prevalent
notion of guanxi, mianzi and renqing (see Sect. 6.3.2) on the one hand, and the rapid
societal changes and high uncertainty requiring Chinese to be more assertive on the
other hand. The scores for Institutional and In-Group Collectivism conﬁrm China
being a very collectivistic culture. However, the slight differences between As Is
and Should Be reﬂect that these traditional values are challenged in the workplace
as well as in private and “Individual contributions are now being acknowledged
and rewarded” (p. 890). Due to its state of economical development, China still
ranks low on Gender Egalitarianism. In contrast to Hofstede’s low score on
Uncertainty Avoidance, Chinese score rather high on the GLOBE dimension of
Uncertainty Avoidance. Fu et al. (2007) explanation is the traditional Chinese value
of order. The even higher Should Be-score “reﬂects the anxiety caused by the
unprecedented changes going on in China” (p. 891). The discrepancy between
the value of Humane Orientation and its practice reveals once again the changes
China is undergoing. The traditional values related to Humane Orientation are
“challenged by realities and people there ﬁnd it increasingly important to be
assertive and aggressive in order to survive” (p. 892).

With reference to the models on cultural dimensions and intercultural commu-
nication, the following table summarizes general differences between most Western
European countries and Eastern and Southern countries like China (Table 6.3).

Culture or the cultural system sets borders for the entities of the individual and
the group by deﬁning what belongs to the culture and what does not (Zick 2010,
p. 539 f.). Differences between cultures as the aforementioned make adaptation
necessary in case that (business) interaction occurs. Thus, the objective of business
partners in a cross-cultural setting should be mutual adaptation followed by the
establishment of a relational or third culture (Casrnir, 1999). Therefore, selected
approaches to cross-cultural business relationship management—in a European-
Chinese context—will be outlined in the Sect. 6.4.

166

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Table 6.3 Cultural differences in (communication) behavior of Chinese and Westerners

Characteristic

Communication
and Language
Sense of Self
and Space
Dress and
Appearance
Food and Eating
Habits
Time
Consciousness
Family and
Friends

Values and
Norms
Beliefs and
Attitudes

Mental Process
and Learning
Business/Work
Habits

Low-context/Individualistic
(e.g. Western Europe, USA)

High-context/Collectivistic
(e.g. Japan, China, Saudi Arabia)

Explicit, direct

Implicit, indirect

Informal handshakes

Formal bows and handshakes

Dress for individual success, wide
variety
Eating is a necessity, fast food

Indication of position in society,
religious rule
Eating is social event

Linear, exact, promptness is valued,

time¼ money

Elastic, relative, time spent on

enjoyment, time¼ relationships

Nuclear family, self-oriented, value
youth

Independence, confrontation and
constructive conﬂict
Egalitarian, challenge authority,
individuals control destiny, gender
equity
Linear, logical sequential, problem
solving
Deal oriented (‘quickly getting
down to business’), rewards based in
achievement, work has value

Extended family, other oriented,
loyalty and responsibility, respect
for old age
Group conformity, harmony

Hierarchical, respect for authority,
individuals accept destiny, gender
roles
Lateral, holistic, simultaneous,
accepting life’s difﬁculties
Relationship oriented (‘ﬁrst you
make a friend, then you make a
deal’), rewards based on seniority,
work is a necessity

Source: Based on Hollensen (2011)

6.3

Cross-Cultural Differences in Business Relationship
Management and Marketing

A ﬁrst approach to business policy and relationship marketing in Europe could be
seen in Niccolo` Machiavelli’s pamphlet Il Principe (approx. 1513). Despite the fact
that this work is mainly an advice on how to rule an empire, many parallels can be
drawn to modern marketing and management (cf. Thomas 2000). Albeit many of
his thoughts seem rather unethical, Machiavelli’s emphasis on loyalty is a plea for
relationship rather
than transaction orientation (Thomas 2000). Hence,
Machiavelli’s pamphlet received broad attention among business practitioners as
a source of strategic inspiration, which displays in many books on how to apply
Machiavelli’s
since
Machiavelli’s ideas do reﬂect strategies that are more typical for high Power
Distance countries (Hofstede 2001, p. 116), his thoughts are far from being general
knowledge or strategic basis of European business marketing professionals. For
the ancient stratagems of Sun Zi (Sun Tzu
Chinese executives,
et al. 1963) are commonly known and applied in daily business (see Sect. 6.3.2).

(e.g., Phillips 2010). However,

in contrast,

thoughts

in business

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

167

These strategies do also imply the use of deception and tactics like bait, illusion and
fakery, what might be regarded as unethical from a Western perspective but has to
be accepted and understood objectively when doing business with Chinese (Wong
and Leung 2001).

This outlines already one major difference between the Chinese and the Western
approach to business relationships: The Western one is rather clinical and based on
trust, bonds, fairness and power dependence. The Chinese approach involves
Confucian values like renqing (favor or norm of reciprocity), harmony and guanxi
(personal ties) as well as stratagems. Wong, et al. (2007) refer to this as mind-
orientation and heart-orientation, respectively.

6.3.1 Key Factors in Western Business Relationships

Relationship marketing (or relationship management) is “a philosophy of doing
business, a strategic orientation that
focuses on keeping and improving
relationships with current customers rather than on acquiring new customers”
(Zeithaml, et al. 2006, p. 176). Although the focuses of relationship marketing
are retention and/or relationships in both west and east, the western relationship
marketing is a totally different system than in China, and there are some major
factors
that western business practitioners believe can greatly inﬂuence
establishing, maintaining and succeeding business relationships. Hence, we brieﬂy
explain these factors and their impacts on western business relationships in this
section to show the different ways of dealing with business relationships between
the west and China.

6.3.1.1 Trust
Trust is not only essential for building successful business relationships, but is also
important for enhancing business performance. It has thus attracted a great deal of
attention in inter-organizational
research (e.g., Doney et al. 2007; Doney
et al. 1997; Gounaris 2005; Morgan and Hunt 1944; Siguaw et al. 1998;
Sirdeshmukh et al. 2002) as well as in other research ﬁelds, such as social psycho-
logy (e.g., Lewicki and Bunker 1995) and sociology (e.g., Williamson 1991).

There are two dimensions of trust: credibility (or honesty/integrity) and benevo-
lence. Credibility is the expectation that the partner’s word or written statement is
reliable, while benevolence refers to the extent to which a ﬁrm is genuinely
interested in the other’s welfare and is motivated to seek mutual gain. Here is a
most commonly cited deﬁnition of trust.

Trust is the perceived credibility and benevolence of a target of trust (e. g., Doney et al.
1997, p. 36).

Although it is a belief held by one party, trust implies an interaction between two
parties, meaning that the belief should actually be based on the other’s certain
words or behavior. In other words, a ﬁrm’s trust is engendered by the other ﬁrm’s
trustworthiness, or at least the other ﬁrm’s believed trustworthiness. The deﬁnition

168

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

describes such reﬂection by using the word “perceived.”, which also shows that
trust contains both subjective and objective characteristics.

The key effects of trust on inter-organizational relationships determine its
important position in a business marketing context. It is suggested that trust
promotes long-term relationships and higher-level cooperation (e.g., Morgan and
Hunt 1944), enhances competitiveness, commitment and satisfaction (e.g.,
Anderson and Narus 1990), and reduces conﬂict and opportunism (e.g., Pfeffer
and Salancik 1978). On the other hand, the central role of trust also motivates
marketing theorists, who are working on its antecedents.

The nature of trust, which Doney et al. (1997), lies in the two following points.
First, in spite of the disagreement about whether organizations can be targets of trust,
mainstream literature on trust suggests that trust does exist on the organization level.
Second, the operation of trust stems from the vulnerability of decision makers
(trustors) and their decision outcomes—uncertainty that is important to the trustor.
Hence, the effects of trust concentrate on building long-term relationships/orientation
to avoid such risk (e.g., Dwyer et al. 1987).

6.3.1.2 Bonds (Western Networks)
As common ties that unite people and groups in human societies, bonds have been
investigated by sociologists since the 1970s. Their relational nature and key effects
on increasing relational attachments have gradually come to be valued in business
marketing over the last 20 years, which is why bonds have been studied in some
B2B literature as a relational factor, but are rarely thoroughly researched as a main
construct. Smith (1998, p. 78) deﬁnes bonds as:

The psychological, emotional, economic, or physical attachments in a relationship that
were fostered by association and interaction and served to bind parties together under
relational exchange.

Previous research conceptualizes three types of bonds that serve to bind ﬁrms to
business relationships: social bonds, structural bonds, and functional bonds. Social
bonds refer to “the personal ties or linkages forged during interaction at work”
(Smith 1998, p.78). Functional bonds are “the multiplicity of economic, perfor-
mance, or instrumental ties or linkages that serve to promote continuity in a
relationship.” Structural bonds are “ties relating to the structure, governance,
and institutionalization of norms in a relationship” (Smith 1998, p. 79).

Most prior studies in business marketing have only focused on social bonds and
found that social bonds could positively inﬂuence trust, commitment, satisfaction,
and relationship quality in exchange relationships (e.g., Cater and Zabkar 2009;
Mavondo and Rodrigo 2001). A few have researched the other types of bonds and
investigated their effects on trust and relational performance (Gounaris 2005; Lin
et al. 2003) or different effects on commitment in different cultures (e.g., Williams
et al. 1998). Smith (1998) also examined the antecedents of all the types of bonds
and demonstrated that communication, cooperation, and relationalism could help to
foster bonds.

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

169

6.3.1.3 Fairness
As a “human hunger or thirst” (cited in Cohen 1986, p. 1), fairness is listed as one
of the ethical values for marketers (American Marketing Association 2012). Fair-
ness plays a critical role in business relationships. Fairness research in the business
context started as early as the 1980s, however, it was quite short and limited
compared with the long study histories and fruitful outcomes in other disciplines
of the humanities and social sciences. Since the publication of the classic paper by
Kumar et al. in 1995, more and more marketing scholars have been inspired by the
work and recognize the importance of fairness. Research is now rapidly increasing
with many notable works (e.g., Jap 2001; Brown et al. 2006).

According to Scheer (2008) fairness can be deﬁned as follows:

Fairness is an evaluation that one’s condition, outcomes, and/or treatment are appropriate
when judged against relevant standards held by the evaluator.

Fairness is “endlessly resilient” (Pitkin, 1981, p.348), because its nature is
cognitive, subjective, and sometimes egocentric. First, fairness is a perceptual
cognition that does not necessarily have to be “reality” in the “truth world” (Folger
and Cropanzano 1998, p. XV) or an “‘objective’ reality as conceived by a compe-
tent, impartial observer” (Deutsch 1985, p. 12). Second, the principles of fairness
or value involved were only dependent on the evaluator’s choices and opinions
(e.g., Lerner 1974; Deutsch 1975). Finally, in academia, the object of fairness
research is one’s fairness perception rather than the “truth.” As Azar and Darvishi
(2011, p. 7365) stated: “An act is ‘just’ because someone thinks it is.” This again
underscores that a cognitive perception is all fairness theorists ask for.

Two points need to be made. First, fairness concerns one’s “condition” at the
same level of outcomes and treatment, which implies that the outcomes and
treatment received should ﬁrst be in accordance with one’s status quo. This
particularly applies in complex business circumstances in which ﬁrms usually
have different marketing roles and tend to behave based on them (Cateora 1983).
Second, the deﬁnition stresses that not just one standard is used for fairness
evaluations. In other words, it indicates that fairness also varies according to the
application of different rules.

Distributive fairness and procedural fairness are deﬁned contextually in business
marketing. Distributive fairness refers to a ﬁrm’s “perception of the fairness of
earnings and other outcomes that it receives from its relationship” with its partner.
Procedural fairness, on the other hand, is deﬁned as the perception of the fairness of
a ﬁrm’s procedures and processes in relation to its partners (Kumar et al. 1995,
p. 55).

For so many years, fairness research in the B2B ﬁeld has been focused on
answering the same question: How does perceived (un)fairness impact business
relationships? The research puts a great deal of emphasis on this from the
perspectives of both fairness and unfairness. Direct effects include that a fair
distribution is positively related to channel members’ satisfaction and performance,
negatively related to conﬂict between them. A fair perception enhances long-term
orientation and relational behaviors (Grifﬁth et al. 2006; Brown et al. 2006), while

170

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

unfairness tends to generate hostility, conﬂict, and opportunism in business
relationships (Kaufmann and Stern 1988; Samaha et al. 2011). Moreover,
unfairness also causes negative reactions; ﬁrms feel angry when they receive
negative, inequitable outcomes (Scheer et al. 2003).

According to previous literature, fairness also has indirect outcomes. For
instance, Kumar et al. (1995) found that as the outcomes received from the
relationship increase, the importance of distributive fairness on the relationship
quality increases, while in long-term relationships, procedural fairness is more
important than distributive fairness.

Finally, (un)fairness itself acts as a moderator in business relationships. Cui
et al. (2007) demonstrated that in a fair channel relationship coordination could be
achieved by using a constant wholesale price. On the other hand, it has been
identiﬁed that conﬂict and opportunism slightly decrease a channel member’s
outcomes if the perceived unfairness is low (Samaha et al. 2011). In addition,
they also found that perceived unfairness strengthened the negative effects of
conﬂict and opportunism on cooperation and ﬂexibility.

6.3.1.4 Power and Interdependence
It is a well-established tradition that inter-organizational literature includes depen-
dence as a major relational factor. As most of the dependence research is based on
Emerson’s (1962) classical power-dependence theory, dependence has been
deﬁned very consistently. This means that dependency implicitly resides in the
other’s power and “the dependence of actor P over actor O is (1) directly propor-
tional to P’s motivational investment in goals mediated by O, and (2) inversely
proportional to the availability of those goals to P outside of the O-P relation”
(Emerson 1962. p. 32). The deﬁnition below is the more general and widely applied
one in prior marketing literature, which was made by Frazier in 1983 (p. 71):

Dependence refers to a ﬁrm’s need to maintain the business relationships in order to
achieve desired goals.

In B2B relationships, both interdependence/bilateral dependence (mutual depen-
dence of both partners) and asymmetric dependence/unilateral dependence (imbal-
ance between partner’s dependence) exist.

The antecedents of both interdependence and asymmetric dependence have not
been extensively studied. Commitment and trust have been argued to have
consequences on interdependence (El-Ansary 1975), however, there is comment
that the effects are not signiﬁcant (Palmatier et al. 2007).

Generally speaking, interdependence has been shown to have a positive effect on
business relationships. To be more speciﬁc, interdependence is considered to
positively inﬂuence exchange performance, collaborative communication, commit-
ment, and trust (e.g., Kumar et al. 1995; Palmatier et al. 2007) and could promote
the use of legal contracts and contract enforcement (Antia and Frazier 2001; Cai
et al. 2009).

Dependence asymmetry is more often investigated in B2B marketing research.
In most cases, dependence asymmetry has been viewed as the comparative level of

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

171

each ﬁrm’s dependence (e.g., Gundlach and Cadotte 1994). In other words, depen-
dence imbalance in business relationships is no longer the concern; instead,
scholars only consider one ﬁrm’s dependence state regardless of its partner’s.
This work will only concentrate on this logic of asymmetric dependence
conceptualization. The term dependence will be used for short.

A range of dependence effects has been found in business relationships. Some
papers have shown that dependence undermines trust in benevolence (Eggert and
Ulaga 2010), leads to the use of coercive strategies, and reduces the willingness to
compromise (Gundlach and Cadotte 1994). Others suggest that it is positively
related to the cooperation intentions (Andaleeb 1995) and relational loyalty (Scheer
et al. 2010).

Of course, the above mentioned factors are not the whole picture of the western
relationship marketing. However, they present the western way of understandings
of business relationships and how to deal with them, which also make a clear
distinction from the Chinese thinking that is provided in the next section.

6.3.2 Key Factors in Chinese Business Relationships

China has to be considered as a unique research object in the context of business
marketing (Chinese Theory of Business Marketing) (Wang and Song 2011). There-
fore, we want to call attention to the unique phenomenon of guanxi, also referred to
as the Chinese way of relationship marketing (Arias 1998; Yau et al. 2000) and
related values like harmony and face.

6.3.2.1 Confucian Values and the Notion of Guanxi
The Chinese society is one of high Power Distance as a result of the idea of Kong Zi
(孔子 Confucius) that an unequal distribution of power is necessary for a stable
society (Hofstede 2001). Kong Zi deﬁned the ﬁve basic relationships (wu lun 五伦)
implying mutual obligations and responsibility for the involved parties (master—
follower; father—son; elder brother—younger brother; husband—wife; senior
friend—junior friend). In consequence, Chinese do also have a speciﬁc understand-
ing of the notion of personal ties (guanxi) in business relationships. As a mixture of
personal and professional relationships implying certain obligations, these personal
ties determine success in private as well as in business and inﬂuences the way
Chinese perceive business relationships (Yang 1994).

Whilst Western relationship marketing is rather universalistic and impersonal,
guanxi
is particularistic and personal (Arias 1998; Hwang 1987; Lee and
Humphreys 2007) and “can be seen as unifying what Western bourgeois
relationships separate: material exchange and affectionate feelings” (Kipnis
1997, p. 24).

Different authors (Arias 1998; Park and Luo 2001) argue that while a successful
transaction is a precondition for a good (personal) relationship in Western
economies, good guanxi is often a precondition for a successful transaction in
China.

172

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

The word guanxi (pronounced guan-shee) means literally “a relationship” between
objects, forces, or persons. When it is used to refer to relationships between people, not
only can it be applied to husband-wife, kinship, and friendship relations, it can also have
the sense of “social connections,” dyadic relationships that are based implicitly (rather
than explicitly) on mutual interest and beneﬁt. Once guanxi is established between two
people, each can ask a favor of the other with the expectation that the debt incurred will be
repaid sometime in the future (Yang 1994, p. 1 f.).

There are mainly two streams of guanxi research (Heberer 2003; Kipnis 1997):
One interpreting guanxi primarily as Confucian culture essence and another rather
economic, political and social science stream seeing guanxi primarily as a practical
adaptation to communist socioeconomic structures. Thus,
the perception and
behavior of Chinese within business relationships should best be understood as a
result of both, cultural values and environmental factors, since the contemporary
“Chinese society is a blend of old and new cultural values” (Wong and Leung
2001, p. 111).

The Chinese term guanxi (关系) can be translated as “personal connections” or
“personal relationships” and refers to interpersonal relationships that are vital to
conduct successful business transactions in a Chinese environment (Hwang 1987;
Kiong and Kee 1998).

Guanxi is often described as a Chinese way of relationship marketing (e.g., Yau
et al. 2000), albeit certain differences between guanxi and relationship marketing
can be identiﬁed (Wang 2007). Guanxi is transferable among parties, reciprocal and
intangible, and utilitarian rather than emotional (Park and Luo 2001; Arias 1998).
Since guanxi is a special form of long-term oriented personal relationships built
upon a set of shared guanxi bases (e. g., kinship, regional provenance or member-
ship in an association) and, even more important, reciprocal obligations among
individuals, relationship does not necessarily mean guanxi (Kiong and Kee 1998;
Arias 1998; Wang 2007).

The construct of guanxi is deeply rooted in Chinese culture and Confucianism
(Park and Luo 2001), but nevertheless it is not a unique Chinese phenomenon.
Strong emphasis on personal relationships in business is also known from other
cultures like Japan or Russia (Hwang 1987; Arias 1998; Ledeneva 2008). However,
in its speciﬁc form guanxi is a product of Chinese culture and environmental factors
that inﬂuence the way business is conducted.

According to Hwang (1987) guanxi is a relationship of mixed ties, meaning
guanxi is neither solely expressive as bonds among family members nor exclusively
instrumental as transactions among strangers. These mixed ties involve the use of
renqing (reciprocal exchange of favors) and mianzi (face) to inﬂuence others’
behavior. Thus, guanxi means also sustaining each other’s reputation and social
status (Arias 1998).

Furthermore, guanxi can be understood as a system of concentric circles with
individuals being either located in the center or the periphery depending on the
distance of the relationship and the degree of trust (Yang 1994; Park and Luo 2001).
“That is, the more inner circle the guanxi party is located on, the smaller the
psychological distance between the guanxi partner and the self, the better the

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

173

Fig. 6.4 A person’s Guanxi-network with different levels of relationship quality. Source: Based
on Chen and Chen (2004, p. 312)

guanxi quality is.” (Chen and Chen 2004, p. 312). The degree of guanxi between
two individuals determines the extent to which social resources are exchanged
between them (Fig. 6.4) (Hwang 1987).

As the establishment of guanxi relationships in Chinese society usually involves
“altercasting”, i. e. forcing a potential relationship partner into his or her role,
individuals in a guanxi network face a complex role duality, being both passive
followers of social norms in predetermined relationships and active initiators of
voluntary relationships. Once the relationship is basically established, one has to
follow the rule of renqing, reciprocating received gifts or favors. These gifts or
favors are not expected being repaid immediately, but when time of need has come.
In addition, the rule of renqing implies that favors owed to someone increase in
value compared to the once received favor (Hwang 1987; Yang 1994; Park and Luo
2001). Against this background, involvement in guanxi always implies the risk of
being involved in corruption, if relationships are not only used to facilitate business
exchange, but to circumvent legal barriers (Dunfee and Warren 2001).

Thus, and in line with Plinke’s deﬁnition of a business relationship (see Chap. 1),
we propose the following deﬁnition for guanxi with regard to business marketing:

Guanxi indicates a series of personal interactions, which are internally interlinked with
each other, implying certain obligations and favors, and might be related to business but
also to private. Hence, in contrast to business relationship management, guanxi is rather
holistic, because business transactions are part of it, but not necessarily its core.

174

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Originally, a guanxi perspective is limited to social relationships (Arias 1998).
However, Lee and Humphreys (2007, p. 451) “deﬁne guanxi as a corporate culture
that has a strong emphasis on the relationships between business partners for
achieving mutual beneﬁts and involves the use of personal and/or inter-ﬁrm
connections to secure favors in the long run.” Thus, due to the transferability of
guanxi, there is also a number of works on guanxi on the organizational level (Park
and Luo 2001; Arias 1998; Mavondo and Rodrigo 2001; Yang et al. 2012). In line
with these works and especially the one of Chen et al. (2011) guanxi could also be
understood as a certain business strategy or practice that
facilitates good
relationships in terms of cooperation, long-term orientation and performance
among companies. Accordingly, Wong and colleagues (Wong and Leung 2001;
Wong et al. 2007) developed a comprehensive guanxi management model.

6.3.2.2 Elements of Guanxi-Relationships
As a rather complex phenomenon guanxi
is a higher order construct (Yen
et al. 2011), based upon a set of different constructs. These constructs determine
the degree of guanxi one develops within the social
interaction with other
individuals, and thus, one’s position within a guanxi network.

(in particular,

Typically, it is suggested that guanxi is built upon ganqing (emotional affection),
renqing (favor or social norm of reciprocity) and xinren or xinyong (trust or social
credit) (Hwang 1987; Wang 2007; Yen et al. 2011). Recently, Yen et al. (2011)
introduced an empirically tested instrument to measure the degree of a business
relationship’s guanxi
the guanxi maintained between the
representatives of the respective ﬁrms). The so-called GRX-scale builds upon the
three aforementioned Chinese constructs of ganqing, renqing and xinren. Some
authors also mention mianzi (face) as an important factor inﬂuencing guanxi, but,
vice versa, also being inﬂuenced by guanxi (Hwang 1987). Due to the overall
importance of mianzi within the Chinese culture and within intercultural inter-
action, it should deﬁnitely be included into the understanding of guanxi as a
business strategy.

In the following, an attempt to deﬁne the aforementioned constructs and their
mutual interdependencies is undertaken. This shall lead to a better understanding of
how guanxi works and how Western companies might utilize it.

mianzi 面子 (Face)
mianzi is an intangible form of social currency and personal status that is determined
by a person’s post, credibility, honesty, reputation, power, income, or network. An
individual’s mianzi can be described as the perceived social position and prestige in
one’s guanxi network. Other things being equal, a guanxi relationship becomes
stronger if one’s partner has superior mianzi. Therefore, saving one’s own as well as
the face of persons in one’s guanxi network is crucial for the maintenance, extension
and utilization of guanxi. Hence, a complex interdependency between guanxi and
mianzi can be realized: The quality and quantity of one’s personal relationships
(guanxi) inﬂuences one’s mianzi (perceived overall social status), and vice versa
(Hwang 1987; Park and Luo 2001). Thus, mianzi received in a relationship leads to

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

175

defensiveness mechanisms towards outsiders of the relationship network (Wong
and Leung, 2001).

renqing 人情 (Norm of Reciprocity and Exchange of Favors)
renqing is a complex construct implying (1) empathy, (2) an incalculable resource
that is used in social exchange, and (3) an informal social norm of reciprocity by
which guanxi networks are developed, maintained and utilized for mutual beneﬁt as
well as one’s personal advantage. Violating the norm of reciprocal obligations leads
to a loss of face (mianzi) and consequently even to a loss of guanxi (Hwang 1987;
Wang 2007; Park and Luo 2001).

The renqing rules set behavioral norms guiding exchange parties based on face-
saving and mutual insurance rather than the belief of exchange partners’ integrity
and honesty (Wang 2007). Hwang (1987) describes the interdependency between
doing renqing, anticipating the payback of renqing, repaying renqing and face and
guanxi as the dilemma of renqing: It is nearly impossible to repay a debt in renqing
due to its subjectiveness and the value spiral (Hwang 1987).

ganqing 感情 (Emotional Affection)
ganqing implies personal feeling and emotional attachment between interacting
parties. It plays a key role in maintaining and enhancing a guanxi relationship and
makes impersonal business relationship more personal (Wang 2007). Multiple
guanxi bases—such as memberships, regional provenance, etc.—help to enhance
social interaction and thus ganqing through a feeling of shared commonalities
(Kiong and Kee 1998). For developing ganqing an ongoing social interaction is
of paramount importance. This does usually involve wining-and-dining and the
exchange of gifts (Yang 1994).

xinren 信任 or xinyong 信用 (Personal Trust or Social Credit)
Within the literature some authors refer to xinren and some to xinyong as a
dimension of guanxi. Whilst both could simply be translated as trust, semantically
there is an important difference. Literally, xinyong means credibility, i. e. it is more
objective and based upon the trustworthiness perceived by a social group. Xinren,
literally meaning (personal) trust, is much more subjective and can be based upon
affection and a personal believe in someone. Thus, Yen et al. (2011, p. 100) argue
that “In Chinese, one would only have xinren with the other party, in so far as the
other party is evaluated as having good xinyong (credibility). It literally says that
one should only trust a person who is trustworthy.”

Mere trust or xinren is not sufﬁcient

to develop and sustain long-term
relationships. While Western societies rely on contracts or partners’ benevolence,
Chinese rely on the rule of renqing and mianzi (Wang 2007). Leung et al. (2005)
provide empirical evidence that Chinese emphasize on xinyong on a personal level
rather than satisfaction on the organizational level to build a partnership relation-
ship. This is in line with Kiong and Kee (1998) who found for Chinese traders in
Singapore and Malaysia transactions building on xinyong are intrinsically higher

176

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

valued than those building on impersonal laws. Thus, if guanxi exists verbal
xinyong based contracts are desired by Chinese.

6.3.2.3 Harmony
As one of the fundamental Confucian values, harmony is widely regarded as a
commonly shared principle to guide interactions among individuals and groups in
China. Most Chinese people strongly believe that pursuing harmony is quite
essential in social life (Yang 1994). It is highly valued and deeply rooted in the
everyday life for thousands of years. Here are two examples: The three halls, the
heart of the Outer Court of the Forbidden City, in which the Ming and Qing
emperors held courts and hosted imperial ceremonies, were named as the Hall of
Supreme Harmony (太和殿), the Hall of Central Harmony (中和殿), and the Hall
of Preserving Harmony (保和殿). And in contemporary China, the central govern-
ment uses “constructing a harmonious society” as a political slogan.

Harmony, in Chinese, can be literally translated as He (和), describing a peaceful
and/or united state. A great deal of Chinese idioms repeatedly stress the idea of
harmony, such as Yi He Wei Gui (harmony is most precious; 以和为贵), He Er Bu
Tong (gentlemen will be in harmony with each other despite their differences; 和而
不同), He Qi Sheng Cai (harmony brings wealth, 和气生财), and so on. The last
idiom has been extensively recognized and valued by businesspeople since ancient
times, meaning that it has also been a long history of harmony being a guideline in
business practice (e.g., Leung 1988; Zhang and Zhang 2013).

Sociologists found that “the ultimate goal of the concerned parties is to maintain
a harmonious atmosphere,” (Zhang and Zhang 2013) and anything that destroys
harmony will lead to anxiety in Chinese social life (Yang 1994). In the meanwhile,
some theories are focused on the important role harmony played in conﬂict resolu-
tion. Gabrenya and Hwang (1996) demonstrated that Chinese tended to avoid
conﬂict by tolerating interpersonal disagreements and transgressions. Similarly in
the business context, where research also shows that Chinese managers strongly
prefer negotiation and mediation to adjudication when resolving conﬂicts compared
to their American counterparts (Leung 1988). On the other hand, harmony signiﬁ-
cantly inﬂuences guanxi, which is also a key value of Confucianism (see Sect.
6.3.3.1). People are more likely to cherish harmony with the ones whom they have
good guanxi with to make it stable (Zhang and Zhang 2013). Another example is
Chinese use the phrase, “breaking the face” (撕破脸) to express that harmony is
jeopardized, showing the close relationship between harmony and face (mianzi).
From this perspective, harmony is used for giving mianzi and maintaining guanxi in
social interactions.

In China, the value of harmony is highly respected. Once the inter-personal/
inter-organizational harmony is destroyed, it will have negative inﬂuence on the
whole relationship, even worse, some relationships might hardly ever recover. It is
common that the Chinese “appear to pursue harmony for harmony’s sake” (Zhang
and Zhang 2013, p. 102), it is thus still necessary to safeguard harmony even if it is
in a very superﬁcial way. Therefore, Western practitioners need to be cautious with
manifest conﬂicts when dealing with Chinese businessmen.

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

177

6.3.2.4 The Stratagems of Sun Zi
In addition to the concepts of guanxi and harmony, the stratagems outlined by Sun
Zi in The Art of War are always prevalent in a Chinese business context. The Art of
War was written between 515–512 BC by Sun Tzu (Sun Zi, 孙子), a high-ranking
Chinese military general, strategist and tactician. It is the earliest military treaties in
the world, and the most inﬂuential military work in Asia “where the common
people knew it by name” (Sawyer 2007, p. 149).

The book is a general “guideline” for ﬁghting a war in 13 detailed aspects of
warfare, including Detail Assessment and Planning, (始计), Waging War (作战),
Strategic Attack (谋攻), Disposition of the Army (军形), Forces (兵势), Illusion
and Reality (虚实), Military Maneuvers (军争), Variations and Adaptability (九
变), Movement and Development of Troops (行军), Terrain/Situational Positioning
(地形), The Nine Battlegrounds (九地), Attacking with Fire (火攻), and Intelli-
gence and Espionage (用间) (translated by Wee 2003; Wing 1988). A unity of
opposites is presented in the book, based on the Yin-Yang concept from I Ching or
Classic of Changes (Zhouyi ⟪周易⟫). The following seemingly opposite or con-
trary forces that are interconnected and interdependent are discussed throughout the
book: Hardness-Softness (刚柔), Strength-Weakness (强弱), Illusion-Reality (虚
实), Host-Guest (主客), Self-Opponent (彼己), Attack-Defense (攻防), Gains-
Losses (利害), Victory–Defeat (胜败) and Direction–Indirection (奇正).

The book has not only inﬂuenced Eastern and Western military thinking, but also
had a great impact on business tactics, legal strategies and beyond. Some ideas
emphasized by Sun Tzu, such as to position an army based on both objective
conditions and the subjective beliefs of other competitive actors, and to respond
quickly and appropriately to changing conditions are particularly valued within
business contexts (Michaelson, 2001). On the other hand, much of the text is about
how to ﬁght wars without actually having to do battle, it therefore ﬁnds applications
as a training guide for many competitive contexts that do not involve actual
combat—the business context is one of them. The book is also popular among
Western management executives and Japanese corporations who have turned to it
for inspiration and suggestion on how to be successful in competitive business
contexts. (e.g., Krause 1995; McNeilly 1996). Nevertheless, it is only one book of
thousands of recommended strategic books in the Western business world. The
situation is absolutely different in China. The basic principles and stratagems of this
book are so deeply rooted in everyone’s heart for centuries that they turned to
idioms and are even prevailingly used in modern daily life, such as 后发先至
(enticing the enemy to take a long and circuitous route, and though starting after
him, to contrive to reach the goal before him, shows knowledge of the artiﬁce of
deviation), 避实击虚 (to avoid what is strong and to strike at what is weak), 兵不厌
诈 (All warfare is based on deception), 不战而屈人之兵 (The supreme art of war is
to subdue the enemy without ﬁghting), and so on. It is therefore not surprising that
the Chinese negotiators “embraces a mixture of different roles together: ‘Maoist
bureaucrat in learning’, ‘Confucian gentleman’, and ‘Sun Tzu-like strategist.’”
(Fang 2006, p. 54). In conclusion, the Art of War is on the required reading book list
of nearly every key executive, in order to be 知己知彼,百战不殆 (if you know your

178

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

enemies and know yourself, you can win a hundred battles without a single loss), it
is very essential to know this work when dealing with Chinese businessmen.

6.3.3 Differences Between Guanxi and Western Relationship

Marketing

Whilst relationship marketing is universalistic and impersonal, guanxi is particular-
istic and personal. Hence, relationship marketing networks are relatively open to
any exchange partners who follow the rules, whereas a guanxi network is an
exclusive circle of members. However, guanxi and relationship marketing also
share certain commonalities: Both are based on mutual understanding, cooperation
and a certain long-term orientation. But they differ signiﬁcantly in their underlying
exchange principles: Legality and rules in relationship marketing and morality and
social norms in guanxi (Arias 1998; Wang 2007). It is even suggested that guanxi
unites long-term relationship orientation and short-term transaction orientation due
to its mixed nature (Hwang 1987; Arias 1998; Lee and Humphreys 2007). Different
authors (Park and Luo 2001; Arias 1998) argue that while a successful transaction is
a precondition for a good relationship in Western economies, good guanxi is often a
precondition for a transaction in China. “In short, the contrasts lie in a major
difference in management philosophy: there is a preference in the West for ‘Mind’
management, while in China more emphasis is placed on the ‘Heart’” (Wong
et al. 2007 p. 877). The following table outlines these two management
philosophies.

Wong and Leung (2001) consequently summarize the main differences between
Western approaches and Chinese approaches to business relationships as depicted
in the following ﬁgure (Fig. 6.5).

6.4

Approaches to the Management of Sino-European
Business Relationships

The above-outlined differences in Western and Chinese business relationships
make it necessary to develop an approach that facilitates mutual understanding
and adaptation. Generally, this can be achieved by (1) a thorough gap analysis
resulting in market research and educational measures for businesspeople, which
help to close the gap or minimize the cultural distance, respectively, and ideally
lead to (2) attempts by either party to build a relational, third culture or (3) an
adaptation to the Chinese way of relationship marketing by mutual building of
guanxi. Additionally, for Chinese businesspeople adaptation to the Western, often
more transaction-oriented way of business relationship marketing would be imagin-
able. This would involve a more direct, explicit behavior. However, it is much
easier for businesspeople from high-context, relationship-oriented cultures to move
towards a low-context, more explicit way of doing business (Hall 1989). Further-
more, Western businesspeople
and

increasingly emphasize

relationships

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

179

Western Approach

Chinese Approach

Social

Exchange 
and Power 
Dependence

Transaction 

Costs

Interaction

Interfirm 

Adaptation in 

Business 

Relationships

Renqing
(Favor)

Guanxi

Mianzi
(Face)

Fig. 6.5 Western and Chinese approaches to interﬁrm adaptation in business relationships.
Source: Based on Wong et al. (2007, p. 33)

cooperation and seem to move in the direction of Guanxi-type systems throughout
the twenty-ﬁrst century (Lovett et al. 1999). Therefore, we do not put emphasis on
that approach in the following sections.

6.4.1 Gap Analysis in a Cross-Cultural Negotiation

As already indicated above, the cultural distance (i.e., different basic assumptions,
norms and values, behavioral and communicative patterns) between European
cultures and Chinese culture is what makes adaptation necessary for the sake of
mutual understanding and successful negotiations and business relationships.
Therefore, Hollensen (2011, p. 665ff.) suggests to start with a gap analysis when
it comes to cross-cultural negotiations and the initiation of business relationships.
Such an analysis has to take the national and organizational culture of either party
involved into account in order to assess the cultural distance (Gap 1). Furthermore,
potential adaptations due to a shared business culture and the resulting actual
behavior of the buyer and the seller have to be considered. The actual gap being
identiﬁed between the interacting managers (Gap 2) can be closed by means of
market research and education for salespeople. The latter should be reﬂected in a

180

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Adaptation 
of seller‘s 
behavior

National 
and 
organi-
zational
culture

Gap 2:

How to close this gap?
•
Market research

(cid:129)

EducaƟon of
salespeople
salespeople

Adaptation 
of buyer‘s 
behavior

National 
and 
organi-
zational
culture

Actual buyer/seller behavior
Actual buyer/seller behavior

Europe
Europe

Actual buyer/seller behavior
Actual buyer/seller behavior

China
China

Gap 1:

Cultural distance

Fig. 6.6 Gap analysis in a cross-cultural negotiation. Source: Based on Hollensen (2011, p. 666)

long-term oriented, sustainable human resource development program. Such a
program ideally leads to the salespeople’s ability to build relational cultures (see
Sect. 6.4.2) or to adapt to the Chinese way of relationship management (see
Sect. 6.4.3) (Fig. 6.6).

The following ﬁgure depicts the process of a cross-cultural gap analysis.

6.4.2 Mutual Adaptation by Third-Culture Building

In industries with high requirements for global
integration but rather low
requirements for local responsiveness, so-called global industries, the existence of
a globally integrated business culture is likely, since these companies have to apply
an integration strategy regarding the targeted markets as well (Bartlett and Ghoshal
2002; Macharzina and Wolf 2010). For European-Chinese business relationships
taking place in these industries, it is vital to understand how integration happens and
a relational culture can be built, since Casrnir (1999, p. 107) assumes “that
meaningful, beneﬁcial
changes or
adaptations on the part of all participating individuals, and that such changes
are not easy”. Thus, he suggests a Third-Culture Building Model that represents the
dynamic process of developing a unique relational culture by mutual adaptations.
This model contains four phases, in which shared “standards, value systems,
ongoing personal relationships,
interdependence and possibly new language
components” (Casrnir, 1999, p. 108 f.) emerge. Within the theory of acculturation,

communication requires

intercultural

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

181

that is mainly applied in migration contexts, this approach correspondents to an
integration strategy (i. a., Berry et al. 2011; Zick, 2010). In a business context, for
the example of corporate mergers an integration approach is seen as favorable
strategy (Malekzadeh and Nahavandi 1990). Hence, third-culture building as
described by Casrnir (1999) can also be applied to European-Chinese business
relationships:

Contact (Phase 1): This phase represents the initial contact of European and
Chinese businesspeople or organizations with each other. Since this contact might
be the result of an unsolicited inquiry, it will not necessarily lead to further
interaction. Reasons for the end of the contact may be rooted in a lack of resources,
low intercultural competence, individual fears of dealing with foreign companies or
speciﬁc corporate policies.

Need and Interaction (Phase 2): If the parties perceive the initial contact as being
related to their mutual economic needs (i. e., they are generally interested in the
establishment of a business relationship), further contacts follow. However, if there
is no such perception of mutual beneﬁts from the contact, the contact may also end
here.

While no further steps may be taken towards building a third-culture, the decision could be
quite abrupt or arbitrary (caused by fear, anger or intervention of others within a given
culture) on the part of even one participant, or it could be based on limited opportunities,
over time, for communicative interaction. (Casrnir 1999, p. 110)

In case that the interaction and communication continues, a need for change or
adaptation on both sides will emerge. At this stage it is of high importance that the
involved parties are not only aware of this necessary mutual adaptation but also able
to actively build and organize such a process. This would be the case if a former gap
analysis has led to educational measures.

Dependence (Phase 3): At this stage and as a result of the former and ongoing
interaction the involved parties do already depend on one another in order to
achieve mutual beneﬁts. Therefore,
the building of a third-culture starts by
negotiating behavioral rules, acceptable outcomes and roles within the relationship.
Third-Culture Interdependence (Phase 4): By ongoing dialogic communication
and on the basis of interdependence, the involved parties can develop and maintain
a third-culture. Therefore, businesspeople and organizations have to accept that
mutual beneﬁts can best be achieved through cooperative behavior. “In effect, the
beneﬁcial continuation of the process becomes dependent on relationship and trust-
building during mutual efforts to organize an ongoing communicative interactional
process.” (Casrnir 1999, p. 111) Consequently, third-culture building requires
businesspeople in a European-Chinese setting to have a deep understanding of
cultural differences concerning values and communicative behavior.

Figure 6.7 depicts Casrnir’s Third-Culture Building Model and its different

stages.

182

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

THIRD CULTURE 
INTERDEPENDENCE

DEPENDENCE

(Third culture building commences)

INTERACTION

(process may end)

(process of building or organizing may begin)

NEED

(process may continue)

CONTACT

(process may end)

(process may end)

Individual 

Europe

Individual

China

Fig. 6.7 Dialogic communication model of third-culture building. Source: Based on Casrnir
(1999, p. 109)

6.4.3 Comprehensive Guanxi Model by Wong and Leung

In some cases, especially when the business relationship is taking place in China or
the Chinese organization is an important and powerful buyer of the European one, a
guanxi-oriented relationship marketing approach could be favorable.

The expectation is that a foreigner, when doing business in China, would integrate into the
rules and understand different expectations and returns. Failure to do so is deemed to be
‘not enough of a friend’. Therefore, a foreigner needs to know the ways that a Chinese uses
to ask favours in the level of delicacy and understands that he always feels more free to ask
favours. (Wong et al. 2007, p. 885)

For such European-Chinese business relationships Wong and colleagues came
up with a comprehensive guanxi model (Wong and Leung 2001; for a brief version
see Wong et al. 2007), which “attempts to account for differences in Western and
Chinese views and to provide a holistic perspective to balance or explain the
apparently conﬂicting views” (Wong and Leung 2001, p. 106). This model contains
ﬁve basic elements building a strategic guanxi management process (Wong and
Leung 2001):

1. Analysis of the changing relationship context: This phase applies the so-called
SPACE-approach in order to understand the system (macroeconomic, political
and legal environment), changes in the societal environment, the personalism
related to family and kin networks, the individual self by employing empathy
and the adaptation of business organizations as a result of synergy, pragmatism,

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

183

commitment of each party and empathy inside members of a given network
(Wong and Leung 2001).

2. Market intelligence in the form of guanxi perceptual positioning: This phase is to
get a better understanding of the positioning of guanxi in order to plan marketing
measures. Therefore, Wong and Leung (2001, p. 126) suggest a progression
abbreviated DFAT (dependence, favor, adaptation, trust) and explain:

The order of the letters represents the progression from dependence to trust. Owing to
dependence on another party, one party may attempt to minimize the risk of uncertainty by
exchanging favor with other members inside the guanxi network. If the exchange is
productive, the members will continue adapting their behavior to accommodate the weak-
ness of the other party. This adaptation process eventually leads to mutual trust. The DFAT
concept does not require any absolute sequence or a causal link, because there are too
many variables in the real world.

Related to each of the DFAT-constructs and the respective degree of adapta-
tion is a certain status within a guanxi relationship: unadapted outsider (fencer),
adapted outsider (ﬁance´), unadapted insider (new friend), adapted insider (old
friend). This status affects the guanxi interaction process between the involved
business organizations. In analogy to a love couple the interaction process
related to the status is described as beware (fencer), beneﬁt (ﬁance´), belonging
(new friend) and beloved (old friend). Thus, being aware of one’s status in a
business relationship helps to implement the right marketing strategy. Further-
more, there are different routes of going through these status stages in order to
establish and maintain good guanxi. The perceptual map of Wong and Leung
(2001) depicts the different status stages according to the level of interaction and
adaptation and respective routes towards the status of an old friend, i. e. a
business relationship of mutual interdependence and trust.

3. Guanxi strategies: Fig. 6.8 outlines that there are different routes towards good
guanxi (old friend): The I-route (F1-F4), the L-route (F1-F3-F4) and the Z-route
(F1-F3-F2-F4). In addition to the depicted three routes there are two more routes

Fig. 6.8 Guanxi positioning
map and development routes.
Source: Based on Wong and
Leung (2001, p. 117)

Benefit

F2
Fiancé

F4

Old Friend

Beloved

Adaptation

F1
Fencer

F3
New
Friend

Beware

Outsider

Belonging

Insider

184

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Table 6.4 Major dimensions behind Chinese business relationship building

Dimension

Mind

Heart

Face and favor-exchange
Negotiation behaviour

Social bonding
Favoritism

Flexibility
Role expectation
Role boundaries

Cooperation and
continuity
dependency of
cooperation
Guiding principle in
shared- value

Involvement in
continuity
Commitment

Based on concept of proﬁt
motive
Mutuality
Less favoritism, limited
obligation and equal give-
and-take

Based on concept of reputation
and future interest
Face saving
More favoritism, lifelong
obligation and maybe less
equality at the starting stage

Explicit
Within the pre-determined role
expectations
Based on the concept of conﬂict
resolution and proﬁt motive

Implicit
Beyond the existing role
expectations
Based on the concept of harmony,
ﬂexibility and may emphasize
social objectives

Less emphasis on social
closeness and friendship (based
on legality and rule)
Economic

More emphasis on friendship
(based on morality and social
norms)
Affective

Based on calculated risks

Based on social sanction and
personal network
Affective commitment

Type of commitment

Calculated commitment

Source: Based on Wong et al. (2007, p. 882)

(F1-F2-F4 and F1-F2-F3-F4). Ideally, the short I-route is taken. However, this is
not always possible due to several factors related to the relationship context and
the guanxi implementation process.

4. Implementation of guanxi management: The implementation of a certain guanxi
strategy has to take the different perceptions of relationships in the West and in
China into account (Wong and Leung 2001, p. 106 ff.). This means the complex
interaction of mind and heart approaches as contrasted in Table 6.4. On the mind
side, association and bonding of the key persons of the respective organizations
lead to commitment of either party. On the heart side, empathy for the other
party’s needs and face-giving and face-saving lead to defensiveness, i. e. a
mechanism of mistrust towards persons outside of the guanxi network and a
clear distinction between outsiders and insiders. The “two major concepts,
commitment and defensiveness, are “self-contradictory” because commitment
implies responsibility but defensiveness implies responsibility avoidance”
(Wong and Leung 2001, p. 109). These two opposing poles are combined and
create the dynamic of guanxi-based relationship management. However, in case
of conﬂict between mind and heart, Chinese will usually follow their heart and
give preference to those who are already members of their network. Leung

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

185

et al. (1996) found accordingly that especially communication activities and
daily operations, e. g. maintenance of a good relationship network, identiﬁcation
of correct China contacts, on-site visits to China contacts or monitoring market
trends, are vital for guanxi building and business development in China. In
contrary,
lack of communication with China
contacts, lack of contact network, lack of updated market information or change
of key players during negotiations as key factors leading to a failed business deal
in China.

the identiﬁed, for instance,

5. Guanxi evaluation in adaptation and performance: Furthermore, but not neces-
sarily eventual, the guanxi management process involves an evaluation of the
adaptation and performance within the speciﬁc business relationships. There-
fore, a continuous context analysis (see SPACE-approach above) has to be
undertaken. In that way, potential changes like new government regulations or
changing key contacts can be identiﬁed, their impact can be assessed and
measures can be taken to adjust the degree of adaptation and consequently the
performance.

The comprehensive guanxi-model of Wong and Leung (2001) helps Westerners
to analyze and manage business relationships with Chinese by providing an over-
view of the different interrelated perspectives on a potential European-Chinese
buyer-seller-relationship.

6.5

Managerial Implications for Doing Business in China

6.5.1 Contemporary Business Culture in China

The Chinese culture, particularly the Chinese business culture, is experiencing
unprecedented changes over the past three decades due to the transition from a
centrally planned towards a market economy. On the one hand, traditional Chinese
business customs are mixed together with the Western ones, for example, the
application of guanxi and military treatise to relational marketing management.
On the other hand, the Chinese business culture is also strongly inﬂuenced by
Western cultures (e.g., Bailey et al. 1997). International business rules and laws/
regulations are highly respected and increasingly applied. Business deals, which
used to be nailed by a gentlemen’s agreement between the ones with a close guanxi-
relationship are increasingly replaced by contract agreements. The situation that “a
businessman’s one oral promise is worth one thousand ponds of gold” (a Chinese
idiom, 一诺千金) is therefore no longer the case in business. In addition, the
provinces/regions have various customs and traditions within China, their eco-
nomic developments are also highly imbalanced. Marketers should not assume
the existence of within-country homogeneity (Wang 2013), and individual

186

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

approaches/strategies are thus recommended to be used when interacting with ﬁrms
from different regions of China.

6.5.2 Relational Marketing “Package” in China

As previously discussed in the third section, guanxi, harmony and military treaties/
stratagems can never be overstressed. In fact, these three factors interact with each
other and serve systematically as a whole Chinese relational marketing “package”.
Guanxi could be regarded as a technique or tool that can help initiate and maintain
business relationships. When an inter-organizational/inter-personal relationship is
built, a harmonious atmosphere is needed to maintain and deepen the relationship.
Harmony is even more important when disagreement exists, and conﬂicts should be
best avoided and cautiously handled. The Chinese believe “to be courteous before
the use of force” (先礼后兵), pointing out that destroying harmony is always the
second choice in China. Once harmony is jeopardized, whoever should take the
blame, emotional feelings (ganqing) are hurt, faces (mianzi) are lost, and it is
incredibly difﬁcult to repair them afterwards.

6.5.3 Business Strategies in China

The Art of War provides strategies in B2B relationships. It seems like a paradox
that on the one hand, ﬁrms should keep good guanxi and be harmonious with their
business partners; On the other hand, they are supposed to use strategies on them,
while it is not. In fact, guanxi and harmony themselves can be regarded as
strategies. From a broader perspective, all the efforts placed on building guanxi
and safeguarding harmony are actually implemented softly as structured strategies
aiming at smoothing business and gaining more beneﬁts from relationships. From a
narrower perspective, many strategies directly convey the ideas of building guanxi
and safeguarding harmony in order to confuse the counterparts, such as 笑里藏刀
(hiding a dagger in a smile, one of the thirty-six stratagems), 合纵连横 (ﬁrst allying
with some of the opponents to ﬁght the strongest, and then breaking the alliance and
ﬁghting the rest) and so on. Of course, such strategies are not long-term oriented,
and a lame use of them could be relatively easy to detect, therefore they should be
carefully exerted to avoid negative effects on xinren (trust), ganqing (emotional
affection) and harmony.

6.6

Summary

The primary aim of this chapter is to illustrate the essential role of culture in
business relationship marketing, especially when the cultural distance is as great
as in the case of Europe and China. Shifting away from acquisitions/transactions
toward retention/relationships, relationship marketing and management puts great

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

187

emphasis on businesspeople and organizations, and their behaviors and
interactions. Consequently, substantive knowledge about the culturally determined
behavioral patterns and values of foreign business partners is invaluable for busi-
nesspeople involved in international business.

Against the context of European-Chinese business relationships, major concepts
of cultural values and their representation in business as well as differences in
cross-cultural communication were outlined. A comparison of selected European
countries like Germany and China along these general values and communication
patterns revealed differences in, for instance, hierarchy and group orientation and
explicit vs. implicit communication. With regard to business relationships, key
factors facilitating Western business relationships like trust and fairness and their
counterparts of the Chinese guanxi-system like face and harmony were juxtaposed.
Guanxi has been shown to be the common behavioral pattern guiding business
interactions in the Chinese world; harmony is the atmosphere that all business
parties should preserve and face needs to be given and saved by all means.
Furthermore, commonly known and applied military strategies (stratagems) are
supposed to be used by Chinese when it is necessary to keep the business in an
optimal position even though guanxi and harmony are given.

Finally, three selected approaches for the management of European-Chinese
business relationships were introduced and explained. These approaches point out
the notion of mutual adaptation and understanding for cross-cultural business
relationships to succeed.

Appendix

Exercises

1. Explain what culture is and why it matters to business relationships!
2. In what ways do the Chinese culture and European cultures like Germany differ?
impacts on business interaction deriving from these

What are potential
differences?

3. Explain the notion of context, space and time in an intercultural communication

situation! Outline speciﬁc differences of Western and Eastern cultures!

4. Describe the Western understanding of business relationships and contrast it to

the Chinese one!

5. Comment on the statement “Guanxi

is unethical and nothing more than

corruption”!

6. Explain how a gap analysis in cross-cultural negotiations works!
7. When should companies follow a third-culture building approach in cross-

cultural business relationships?

8. Explain the comprehensive guanxi management model of Wong and Leung and

outline implications for doing business in China!

9. Explain the relationships among Guanxi, Harmony and Sun Tzu Stratagems

when dealing with Chinese business partners.

188

References

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Andaleeb, S. (1995). Dependence relations and the moderating role of trust: Implications for
behavioral intentions in marketing channels. International Journal of Research in Marketing,
12(2), 157–172.

Anderson, J. C., & Narus, J. A. (1990). A model of distributor ﬁrm and manufacturer ﬁrm working

partnerships. Journal of Marketing, 54, 42–58.

Antia, K. D., & Frazier, G. L. (2001). The severity of contract enforcement in interﬁrm channel

relationships. Journal of Marketing, 65(4), 67–81.

Azar, A., & Darvishi, Z. A. (2011). Development and validation of a measure of justice perception
in the frame of fairness theory: Fuzzy approach. Expert Systems with Applications, 38(6),
7364–7372.

Arias, J. T. G. (1998). A relationship marketing approach to guanxi. European Journal of

Marketing, 32(1/2), 145–156.

Bailey, J. R., Chen, C. C., & Dou, S.-G. (1997). Conceptions of self and performance-related
feedback in the U.S., Japan, and China. Journal of International Business Studies, 28(3),
605–625.

Bartlett, C. A., & Ghoshal, S. (2002). Managing across borders: The transnational solution

(2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Berry, J. W., Poortinga, Y. H., Breugelmans, S. M., Chasiotis, A., & Sam, D. L. (2011). Cross-
cultural psychology: research and applications (3rd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.

Brodbeck, F. C., & Frese, M. (2007). Societal culture and leadership in Germany. In J. S. Chhokar,
F. C. Brodbeck, & R. J. House (Eds.), Culture and leadership across the world: the GLOBE
book of in-depth studies of 25 societies (pp. 147–214). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.

Browaeys, M.-J. l., & Price, R. (2011). Understanding cross-cultural management (2nd ed.).

Harlow, England; New York: Financial Times/Prentice Hall.

Brown, J., Cobb, A., & Lusch, R. (2006). The roles played by interorganizational contracts and

justice in marketing channel relationships. Journal of Business Research, 59(2), 166–175.

Cai, S., Yang, Z., & Hu, Z. (2009). Exploring the governance mechanisms of Quasi-integration in

buyer–supplier relationships. Journal of Business Research, 62(6), 660–666.

Cateora, P. (1983). International marketing. Homewood, IL: Richard D. Irwin, Inc.
Cater, B., & Zabkar, V. (2009). Antecedents and consequences of commitment in marketing
Industrial Marketing Management, 38(7),

research services: The client’s perspective.
785–797.

Casrnir, F. L. (1999). Foundations for the study of intercultural communication based on a third-

culture building model. International Journal of Intercultural Relations, 23(1), 91–116.

Chen, X.-P., & Chen, C. C. (2004). On the intricacies of the Chinese Guanxi: A process model of

Guanxi Development. Asia Paciﬁc Journal of Management, 21, 305–324.

Chen, Z., Huang, Y., & Sternquist, B. (2011). Guanxi practice and Chinese buyer–supplier

relationships: The buyer’s perspective. Industrial Marketing Management, 40(4), 569–580.

Chhokar, J. S., Brodbeck, F. C., & House, R. J. (2007). Culture and leadership across the world:

the GLOBE book of in-depth studies of 25 societies. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.

Cohen, R. (1986). Justice: Views from the social sciences. New York: Plenum.
Cui, T. H., Raju, J. S., & Zhang, J. (2007). Fairness and channel coordination. Management Science,

53(8), 1303–1314.

Deutsch, M. (1975). Equity, equality, and need: What determines which value will be used as the

basis of distributive justice? Journal of Social Issues, 3, 137–150.

Deutsch, M. (1985). Distributive justice. New Haven: Yale University Press.
Dunfee, T. W., & Warren, D. E. (2001). Is Guanxi Ethical? A normative analysis of doing business

in China. Journal of Business Ethics, 32, 191–204.

Doney, M., Cannon, J. P., & Hobbs, J. (1997). An examination of the trust in buyer-seller

relationship. Journal of Marketing, 61(2), 35–51.

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

189

Doney, P. M., Barry, J. M., & Abratt, R. (2007). Trust determinants and outcomes in Global B2B

services. European Journal of Marketing, 41(9/10), 1096–1116.

Dwyer, F. R., Schurr, P. H., & Oh, S. (1987). Developing buyer-seller relationships. Journal of

Marketing, 51(2), 11–27.

Eggert, A., & Ulaga, W. (2010). Managing customer share in key supplier relationships.

Industrial Marketing Management, 39(8), 1346–1355.

El-Ansary, A. (1975). Determinants of power-dependence in the distribution channel. Journal of

Emerson, R. M. (1962). Power-dependence relations. American Sociological Review, 27(1),

Fang, T. (2006). Negotiation: The Chinese style. Journal of Business and Industrial Marketing,

Folger, R., & Cropanzano, R. (1998). Organizational justice and human resource management.

Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Fu, P. P., Wu, R., Yang, Y., & Ye, J. (2007). Chinese culture and leadership. In J. S. Chhokar, F. C.
Brodbeck, & R. J. House (Eds.), Culture and leadership across the world: the GLOBE book of
in-depth studies of 25 societies (pp. 877–907). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.

Gabrenya, W., Jr., & Hwang, K. (1996). Chinese social interaction: Harmony and hierarchy on the
Good Earth. In B. M. Harris (Ed.), The handbook of Chinese psychology (pp. 309–321).
New York, NY: Oxford University Press.

Genkova, P. (2012). Kulturvergleichende Psychologie: Ein Forschungsleitfaden. Wiesbaden:

VS Verlag fu¨r Sozialwissenschaften.

Gounaris, S. P. (2005). Trust and commitment inﬂuences on customer retention: Insights from

business-to-business services. Journal of Business Research, 58(2), 126–140.

Gundlach, G., & Cadotte, E. (1994). Exchange interﬁrm and interﬁrm interaction : Research in a

simulated channel setting. Journal of Marketing Research, 31(4), 516–532.

Grifﬁth, D., Harvey, M., & Lusch, R. (2006). Social exchange in supply chain relationships:
The resulting beneﬁts of procedural and distributive justice. Journal of Operations Management,
24(2), 85–98.

Hall, E. T. (1973). The silent language. Garden City, NY: Anchor.
Hall, E. T. (1989). Beyond culture. New York: Anchor Books.
Hall, E. T., & Hall, M. R.

(1984). Verborgene Signale: Studien zur internationalen

Kommunikation; €uber den Umgang mit Franzosen. Hamburg: Gruner + Jahr.

Hall, E. T., & Hall, M. R. (1990). Understanding cultural differences: [Germans, French and

Americans] (1. publ. ed.). Yarmouth, ME.: Intercultural Press.

Heberer, T. (2003). Guanxi. In B. Staiger, S. Friedrich, & H.-W. Schu¨tte (Eds.), Das große China-
Lexikon. Geschichte, Geographie, Gesellschaft, Politik, Wirtschaft, Bildung, Wissenschaft,
Kultur. (pp. 280–282). Darmstadt: Wiss. Buchgesellschaft.

Hofstede, G. (2001). Culture’s consequences: comparing values, behaviors, institutions, and

organizations across nations (2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks: Sage.

Hofstede, G., & Hofstede, G. J. (2009). Lokales Denken, globales Handeln: interkulturelle
Zusammenarbeit und globales Management (Orig.-Ausg., 4, durchges (Auﬂth ed.). Mu¨nchen:
Dt. Taschenbuch-Verl. u.a. Beck.

Hollensen, S. (2011). Global marketing: A decision-oriented approach (5th ed.). England,

New York: Harlow, Financial Times Prentice Hall.

House, R. J. (2006). Culture, leadership, and organizations: The GLOBE study of 62 societies

([Nachdr.] ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

House, R. J., Hanges, P. J., Javadin, M., Dorman, P. W., & Gupta, V. (Eds.). (2004). Culture,
leadership, and organizations: the GLOBE study of 62 societies. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Hwang, K.-k. (1987). Face and favor: The Chinese power game. American Journal of Sociology,

Retailing, 51(2), 59–94.

31–41.

21(1), 50–60.

Jap, S. D. (2001). “Pie Sharing” in complex collaboration contexts. Journal of Marketing

92(4), 944–974.

Research, 38(1), 86–99.

190

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Kaufmann, P. J., & Stern, L. W. (1988). Relational exchange norms, perceptions of unfairness, and
retained hostility in commercial litigation. The Journal of Conﬂict resolution, 32(3), 534–552.
Kiong, T. C., & Kee, Y. P. (1998). Guanxi bases, Xinyong and Chinese business networks.

The British Journal of Sociology, 49(1), 75–96.

Kipnis, A. B. (1997). Producing Guanxi: Sentiment, self, and subculture in a North China village.

Durham: Duke University Press.

Kluckhohn, F. R., & Strodtbeck, F. L. (1961). Variations in value orientations. Evanston, IL.:

Row.

Kogut, B., & Singh, H. (1988). The effect of national culture on the choice of entry mode.

Journal of International Business Studies, 19(3), 411–432.

Krause, D. G. (1995). The art of war for executives: Ancient knowledge for today’s business

professional. New York: Berkley Publishing Group.

Kumar, N., Scheer, L. K., & Steenkamp, J. B. E. M. (1995). The effects of supplier fairness on

vulnerable resellers. Journal of Marketing Research, 32(1), 54–65.

Ledeneva, A. (2008). Blat and Guanxi: Informal practices in Russia and China. Comparative

Studies in Society and History, 50(01). doi: 10.1017/s0010417508000078.

Lee, P. K. C., & Humphreys, P. K. (2007). The role of Guanxi in supply management practices.

International Journal of Production Economics, 106(2), 450–467.

Lerner, M. (1974). The justice motive: “Equity” and “Parity” among children. Journal of Person-

ality and Social Psychology, 29, 539–550.

Leung, T. K. P., Lai, K.-h., Chan, R. Y. K., & Wong, Y. H. (2005). The roles of Xinyong and
Guanxi in Chinese relationship marketing. European Journal of Marketing, 39(5/6), 528–559.
Leung, T. K. P., Wong, Y. H., & Wong, S. (1996). A study of Hong Kong businessmen’s
perceptions of the role “Guanxi” in the People’s Republic of China. Journal of Business Ethics,
15(7), 749–758.

Lewicki, R. J., & Bunker, B. B. (1995). Trust in relationships: A model of development and
decline. In Bunker, B. B., Rubin, J. Z. (Ed). Conﬂict, cooperation, and justice: Essays inspired
by the work of Morton Deutsch. The Jossey-Bass Management Series and The Jossey-Bass
Conﬂict Resolution Series (pp. 133–173). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass

Lin, N., Weng, J. C. M., & Hsieh, Y. (2003). Relational bonds and customer’s trust and commit-
ment—A study on the moderating effects of Web Site usage. The Service Industries Journal,
23(3), 103–124.

Lovett, S., Simmons, L. C., & Kali, R. (1999). Guanxi versus the market: Ethics and efﬁciency.

Journal of International Business Studies, 30, 231–247.

Lu¨gger, K., Geiger, I., Neun, H., & Backhaus, K. (2014). When East meets West at the bargaining
table: Adaptation, behavior and outcomes in intra- and intercultural German-Chinese business
negotiations. Journal of Business Economics. doi:10.1007/s11573-013-0703-3.

Macharzina, K., & Wolf,

J.

(2010). Unternehmensf€uhrung:

das

internationale

Managementwissen; Konzepte, Methoden, Praxis (7th ed.). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Malekzadeh, A. R., & Nahavandi, A. (1990). Making mergers work by managing cultures.

Journal of Business Strategy, 11(3), 55–57.

Mavondo, F. T., & Rodrigo, E. M. (2001). The effect of relationship dimensions on interpersonal
and interorganizational commitment in organizations conducting business between Australia
and China. Journal of Business Research, 52, 111–121.

McNeilly, M. (1996). Sun Tzu and the art of business : Six strategic principles for managers.

New York: Oxford University Press.

Michaelson, G. (2001). Sun Tzu: The art of war for managers; 50 Strategic rules. Avon, MA:

Adams Media.

Morgan, R. M., & Hunt, S. D. (1944). The commitment-trust theory of relationship marketing.

Journal of Marketing, 58, 20–38.

Palmatier, R. W., Dant, R. P., & Grewal, D. (2007). A comparative longitudinal analysis of
theoretical perspectives of interorganizational relationship performance. Journal of Marketing,
71, 172–194.

6 Business Relationship Management and Marketing in a European-Chinese Context

191

Park, S. H., & Luo, Y. (2001). Guanxi and organizational dynamics: organizational networking in

Chinese ﬁrms. Strategic Management Journal, 22(5), 455–477.

Pfeffer, J., & Salancik, G. (1978). The external control of organizations: A resource dependence

approach. New York: Harper and Row Publishers, Inc.

Phillips, T. (2010). Machiavellis Der F€urst - 52 brillante Ideen f€ur Ihr Business (N. Bertheau,

Trans.). Offenbach: GABAL Verlag.

Pitkin, H. (1981). Justice: On relating private and public. Political Theory, 9(3), 327–352.
Pornpitakpan, C. (1999). The effects of cultural adaptation on business relationships: Americans

selling to Japanese and Thais. Journal of International Business Studies, 30(2), 317–337.

Ronen, S., & Shenkar, O. (2013). Mapping world cultures: Cluster formation, sources and

implications. Journal of International Business Studies, 44(9), 867–897.

Rothlauf, J. (2012). Interkulturelles Management: mit Beispielen aus Vietnam, China, Japan,
Russland und den Golfstaaten; [Geert Hofstede im Exklusivinterview] (4., €uberarb. und
aktualisierte (Auﬂth ed.). Mu¨nchen: Oldenbourg.

Samaha, S. A., Palmatier, R. W., & Dant, R. P. (2011). Poisoning relationships: Perceived

unfairness in channels of distribution. Journal of Marketing, 75(5), 99–117.

Sawyer, R. D. (2007). The Tao of deception: Unorthodox warfare in historic and modern China.

New York: Basic Books.

Scheer, L. (2008). Foundations of fairness in business-to-business relationships a multi-national
collaboration general outline of proposed research offered to potential research partners. Lisa
Scheer Foundations of Fairness in Business-to-Business Relationships General Outline,
(November), 1–6.

Scheer, L. K., Kumar, N., & Steenkamp, J. B. E. M. (2003). Reactions to perceived inequity in
U.S. and Dutch interorganizational relationships. Academy of Management Journal, 46(3),
303–316. Retrieved from http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id¼339380.

Scheer, L. K., Miao, C. F., & Garrett, J. (2010). The effects of supplier capabilities on industrial
customers’ loyalty: The role of dependence. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science,
38(1), 90–104.

Schein, E. H.

(1983). The role of

Organizational Dynamics, 12(1), 13–28.

the founder

in creating organizational culture.

Schein, E. H. (2010). Organizational culture and leadership. San Francisco, CA: Wiley.
Senger, H. (1992). Strategeme: der erste Band der ber€uhmten 36 Strategeme der Chinesen—lange
als Geheimwissen geh€utet, erstmals im Westen vorgestellt (7th ed.). Bern, Mu¨nchen: Scherz.
Shenkar, O. (2001). Cultural distance revisited: Towards a more rigorous conceptualization and
measurement of cultural differences. Journal of International Business Studies, 32(3),
519–535.

Siguaw, J. A., Simpson, P. M., & Baker, T. L. (1998). Effects of supplier market orientation
on distributor market orientation and the channel relationship: The distributor perspective.
Journal of Marketing, 62(3), 99–111.

Singelis, T. M., Triandis, H. C., Bhawuk, D. P. S., & Gelfand, M. J. (1995). Horizontal and vertical
dimensions of individualism and collectivism: A theoretical and measurement reﬁnement.
Cross-Cultural Research, 29(3), 240–275.

Sirdeshmukh, D., Singh, J., & Sabol, B. (2002). Consumer trust, value, and loyalty in relational

exchanges. Journal of Marketing, 66(1), 15–37.

Smith, B. (1998). Buyer-seller relationships: Bonds, relationship management, and sex-type.
Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences/Revue Canadienne des Sciences de l’Admini-
stration, 15(1), 76–92.

Tzu, S., Grifﬁth, S. B., & Hart, B. H. L. (1963). The art of war (S. b. Grifﬁth, Trans.). New York

and Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Thomas, D. C. (2008). Cross-cultural management: essential concepts (2nd ed.). Los Angeles:

Sage.

192

A. Tirpitz and M. Zhu

Thomas, M. (2000). Niccolo` Machiavelli as relationship marketing guru. In P. Harris, A. Lock, &
P. Rees (Eds.), Machiavelli, marketing, and management (1. publ. ed., pp. XIII, 242 S.).
London: Routledge.

UNCTAD. (2006). Wolrd Investment Report 2006: FDI from developing and transition economies:

Implications for development. Geneva: United Nations.

UNCTAD. (2010). World Investment Report 2010: Investing in a low-carbon economy.

UNCTAD. (2012). World Investment Report 2012: Towards a new generation of investment

Geneva: United Nations.

policies. Geneva: United Nations.

Waldkirch, K. (2009). Erfolgreiches personal management in China: Rekrutierung, Mitar-

beiterf€uhrung, Verhandlung. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Wang, C. L. (2007). Guanxi vs. relationship marketing: Exploring underlying differences.

Industrial Marketing Management, 36(1), 81–86.

Wang, R., & Song, J. (2011). Business marketing in China: Review and prospects. Journal of

Business-to-Business Marketing, 18(1), 1–49.

Williams, J. D., Han, S.-L., & Qualls, W. J. (1998). A conceptual model and study of cross-cultural

business relationships. Journal of Business Research, 42, 135–142.

Williamson, O. E. (1991). Calculativeness, trust and economic organization. Journal of Law and

Economics, 26, 453–86.

Wong, Y. H., & Leung, T. K. P. (2001). Guanxi: relationship marketing in a Chinese context.

Binghamton, NY: International Business Press.

Wong, Y. H., Leung, T. K. P., Hung, H., & Ngai, E. W. T. (2007). A model of Guanxi
development: Flexibility, commitment and capital exchange. Total Quality Management and
Business Excellence, 18(8), 875–887.

Yang, M. M.-h. (1994). Gifts, favors, and banquets: the art of social relationships in China

(1st ed.). Ithaca: Cornell University Press.

Yau, O. H. M., Lee, J. S. Y., Chow, R. P. M., Sin, L. Y. M., & Tse, A. C. B. (2000). Relationship

marketing the Chinese way. Business Horizons, 2000, 16–24.

Yen, D. A., Barnes, B. R., & Wang, C. L. (2011). The measurement of guanxi: Introducing the

GRX scale. Industrial Marketing Management, 40(1), 97–108.

Zeithaml, V., Bitner, M., & Gremler, D. (2006). Services marketing: Integrating customer focus

across the ﬁrm (4th ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill Irwin.

Zhang, Z., & Zhang, M. (2013). Guanxi, communication, power, and conﬂict in industrial buyer-
seller relationships: Mitigations against the cultural background of Haumony in China.
Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing, 20, 99–117.

Zick, A.

(2010). Psychologie der Akkulturation: Neufassung eines Forschungsbereiches.

Wiesbaden: VS Verlag fu¨r Sozialwissenschaften/Springer Fachmedien Wiesbaden GmbH.

Implementation of Business Relationship
Management

Part III

Instruments of Business Relationship
Management

7

Ingmar Geiger and Michael Kleinaltenkamp

7.1

Introduction

“The customer is king.” This is not only the guiding principle of marketing, it is also
a common everyday phrase—and it could serve as the motto for external imple-
mentation of business relationship management. In the ﬁrst two parts of our book,
we penetrated the theory of business relationship management, then we introduced
its analysis and planning tasks. The third part of the book and especially this
Chap. 6 are dedicated to the implementation of business relationship management.
What can and should a company do to create value for its customers? What should a
company do to defend its own business relationships from the competition? How
can they be made proﬁtable?

The business relationship management instruments introduced in this chapter
are intended to ﬁll
the effectiveness dimension of the business relationship
management—meaning the creation of customer value—with ideas and life. The
issue of efﬁciency and thus generation of a supplier advantage are covered in
Chap. 3. Following this introduction, we will concentrate on the four instrumental
aspects of marketing (product, distribution, communication and pricing policies) to
present and discuss approaches for generating and maintaining customer value. It
should be noted that the four aspects sometimes overlap signiﬁcantly: The focus of
marketing in business relationship management is the customer, not a single
product. It is also important to point out that the portrayal in this chapter refers
primarily to the management of existing business relationships. Other, additional
instruments may be needed to establish new business relationships (Bruhn 2007).

I. Geiger (*) (cid:129) M. Kleinaltenkamp
School of Business & Economics, Freie Universita¨t Berlin, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: ingmar.geiger@fu-berlin.de; michael.kleinaltenkamp@fu-berlin.de

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5_7

195

196

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

7.1.1 Customer Loyalty as the Objective of Instrument Application

As we saw in the previous Chap. 5, the strategic goal of an existing, proﬁtable
business relationship is to preserve and defend the relationship. So the basic
concept is to bind the customer to the company. The fundamental ways to achieve
this are by maintaining or increasing the value for the customer and by creating
switching costs for the customer. Empirical research increasingly shows that
customers are particularly prone to become and remain loyal if the value of the
relationship is right for them and not because they feel compelled to remain in a
business relationship because of high switching costs (Geiger et al. 2012; Saab
2007).

In regard to the value for the customer, three approaches were presented in Sect.
5.3.1: improvement of the core product, improvement of the procurement and
interaction process and enhancement of customer operations, whereby beneﬁt and
cost aspects can be improved for the customer in all three areas. Three aspects are
particularly relevant:

(cid:129) Reference object: As we saw in Chap. 3, a company can facilitate an increase in
value for the customer at the level of an individual transaction as well as at the
level of the business relationship (Chap. 3).

(cid:129) Reference to competition: Generating a customer beneﬁt is always based on the
service offered by the competition (Cannon and Homburg 2001; Ulaga and
Eggert 2006). So it is not a company’s job to satisfy a customer 100 % but
simply to offer more value than a competitor would.

(cid:129) Reference to time period: Because loyalty is time-related in nature, maintaining
the status quo is not enough to achieve a long-term customer beneﬁt. Loyalty is
founded on a business relationship over a time span, and it must be developed
again and again.

The instruments presented here should be considered examples of ways to
achieve customer loyalty. Because of the vast differences in technology and
business processes in modern business-to-business markets, the business relation-
ship management instruments explained here can only be considered exemplary.
However, they offer a general understanding of the vast possibilities and directions
for the instrumental constellation of a business relationship. This is especially
pertinent in that a broad empirical study of the effectiveness of various instruments
and speciﬁcally their impact on a company’s ﬁnancial success is still missing in
different contexts (Palmatier et al. 2006b).

7.1.2 Secondary Effects of Instrument Application to the Supplier

Company

Since in business relationship management the object of the marketing efforts is the
individual customer and the goal is to ﬁnd a solution to meet his needs and solve his

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

197

problems within the business relationship, instruments from different instrumental
ﬁelds of marketing are often merged to form an overall package of measures. In
cases in which the business relationships are particularly intensive, it happens again
and again that close cooperations between customer and supplier arise
(Kleinaltenkamp 1997). These are necessary on the one hand to achieve the planned
customer beneﬁt. On the other hand, they often lead to the supplier achieving
additional beneﬁts for himself besides the payment agreed for his services.

When it comes to a supplier’s product policies, these beneﬁts frequently take the
shape of know how accrual gained through cooperation with the customer. In light
of longer development times and increasing development costs for products, shorter
product life cycles and higher ﬂop rates of innovations, the knowledge and
capabilities collected with important customers can be essential to a company’s
survival. We will go into this in detail in Sect. 7.2.4.4, when we introduce the lead
user concept.

In regard to communication policies, especially in light of the development of
the mobile internet and the propagation of social media in business-to-business
ﬁelds, communication-based cooperation with customers is more important than
ever to the supplier. When different customers share their experiences with the
supplier’s offerings, e.g. in so-called user groups of in internet forums, the supplier
company can use this type of information as a means of communication. For
example, when users of a product share information with one another, it appears
more credible than when the supplier conveys the same information (Carl 2008). If
such exchanges take place in a publicly accessible forum, the supplier can tell other
customers about the forum, thus diminishing uncertainties in regard to use of the
product. On the other hand, communication-based cooperation with customers
offers an opportunity to collect
research purposes,
e.g. with regard to planning new products, prices and distribution channels. The
user group as a potential type of communication-based cooperation with customers
will be examined in Sect. 7.4.3.

information for market

7.2

Instruments of Product Policies

Although modern business-to-business markets offer a much wider range of
services than ever and there can be no “one size ﬁts all” solution for product
policies, a few developments can still be detected that apply equally to many
offerings within business relationships. These developments can in turn serve as
the starting point when considering how to design a supplier’s speciﬁc product
policies to maintain customer beneﬁts. So in this section we will focus on the
development from product to solution supplier (Sect. 7.2.1), service/product cus-
tomization and customer integration (Sect. 7.2.2), cross-selling (Sect. 7.2.3) and the
meaning of product-related services (Sect. 7.2.4).

198

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

7.2.1 From Product Supplier to Solution Supplier

As they were searching for ways to achieve competitive advantages in the 1980s
and 1990s, corporate managers focused more and more on ﬁrm’s purchasing
functions. As valuation creation activities shifted increasingly to component
suppliers, the own contribution to value creation drastically decreased for many
companies that were previously strongly vertically integrated. However, the num-
ber of component suppliers also increased, which in turn led to high costs for
dealing with so many component suppliers. This is why many companies decreased
their number of component suppliers and strengthened their ties to the remaining
suppliers, purchasing more extensive products and services from them (Kalwani
and Narayandas 1995). For the structure in the automotive industry, this meant the
construction of a supplier pyramid (Backhaus and Voeth 2010): The OEM is at the
top of the pyramid. He purchases essential systems from his ﬁrst-tier suppliers and
has some of them installed directly by the suppliers. The numerous second-tier
suppliers needed for the systems, on the other hand, have nothing directly to do with
the OEM anymore.

This phenomenon has signiﬁcantly changed the entire structure of the industry,
and it can be observed in many other industries as well. Companies that used to
focus on certain (physical) products have moved away from marketing only the
core product. They have come to realize that customers are not primarily interested
in a product or service but that they are seeking a solution to their problems.
Suppliers attempt to meet this demand by offering solutions instead of products
or services (Storbacka et al. 2011). Solutions are comprised of a combination of
physical products and services as well as their application in a common process to
create value between the supplier and the customer. This often leads to the supplier
becoming deeply integrated in the customer’s value-adding process (Cova and Salle
2008), which ideally creates value for the customer and deﬁnitely increases his
switching costs. Example 1 shows how the introduction of such a solution creates
value for the supplier and the purchaser.

Example 1: Management of C-parts by Wu¨ rth Industrie Service for Liebherr
In the mid-1990s, the Wu¨rth group, which originated from a wholesaler for
screws and nuts founded in 1945, established the business segment Wu¨rth
Industrie Service. The intention was to offer industrial customers comprehen-
sive solutions. At the same time, Liebherr, one of the world’s largest
manufacturers of construction equipment, was planning to standardize the
management of C-parts throughout the corporation and introduce a kanban
system for their provision and allocation. C-parts are low-value items, the
procurement cost of which is very high in relation to the value of the goods.
Screw and plug ﬁttings, dowels and clamps, and chemical-technical products
are good examples. Wu¨rth Industrie Service was ultimately awarded the

(continued)

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

199

contract to implement the C-parts management system. It makes sure that the
120,000 kanban containers at 15 Liebherr plants around the world are never
empty. Liebherr has over 10,000 different C-parts on hand in the quantities
needed. Wu¨rth supplies Liebherr with over 200 million of these parts every
year. The processes and logistics are continuously optimized, ensuring that
the prices, assortment, quality and scheduling remain at a satisfactory level.
In addition to high customer loyalty, this partnership has brought Wu¨rth
Industrie Service a dramatic advance in knowledge and extensive access to
the construction machinery market. The next steps intended to expand the
partnership include technical consulting and development by Wu¨rth Industrie
Service (Hermes 2011).

For many companies, offering such system solutions is a steep challenge.
Looking back over time, it is apparent that especially major manufacturers of
physical products added services to their portfolios and successively became a
system supplier. IBM, General Electric and Nokia are good examples of this
(Davies et al. 2007). This put IBM in a position in the early 1990s where it could
on its own offer its business customers solutions that included hardware, software
and all of the supporting services. This reﬂects the case of the pure system
supplier. However, for many smaller companies such vertical integration is not
feasible; for them it makes more sense to act as a system integrator, purchasing the
required components from others and then coordinating and integrating them
themselves. Figure 7.1 shows the differences.

Table 7.1 illustrates the respective beneﬁts of implementing solution offerings as

a system supplier or system integrator.

In the actual corporate world, there are of course a wealth of hybrids between the
prototype models shown here. Besides careful consideration of the make-or-buy
decisions regarding the components of an offered solution, for many companies the
pricing policies for such solutions seem to pose an important challenge. Many
customers realize the value of the solution offered, but the suppliers are sometimes
not able to translate this into greater willingness-to-pay (Bonnemeier et al. 2010).

Manufacturing of
physical components

Design and integration

of components
for a solution

Product components

System integration

Component
manufacturer

System supplier

System integrator

Provision  of service

(e.g. consulting,  financing,

maintenance) 

Service

components

Service
supplier

Fig. 7.1 Fields of activities of system supplier and system integrator. Source: Based on Davies
et al. (2007)

200

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Table 7.1 Comparison of system supplier and system integrator offerings

Advantages of a pure system supplier

Advantages of a pure system integrator

Control of all components of the solution
offered
One stop shopping: profound knowledge of
own technology and system architecture

Standardized components and possibly own
interface standards
Vertically integrated: backwards to physical
products, forwards to services
Reduced transaction costs and internal
transfer prices
Coordination of internal departments and
areas
Reliable delivery of all solution components

Stable and enduring organizational structures

Extensive know-how in the product ﬁeld and
after sales service
Bundled products of standardized
components at a bundled price

Source: Based on Davies et al. (2007)

Integrator of externally acquired parts and
components
The entire range of technology: Clear
understanding of competing standards and
system architectures
Modular components and standardized
interfaces
Specialized: precise knowledge of system and
component level
Market price advantages by comparing
competing component suppliers
System integrator works in a network of
component suppliers
Access to leading suppliers of components and
skills
Flexible time-limited organization tailored to
meet the customer’s needs
Core competencies in system integration and
product management
Sale of single components and skills or those
integrated to form a system solution

7.2.2 Service/Product Customization and Customer Integration

A company’s transitioning from being a pure product or service supplier to becom-
ing a solution provider is accompanied by customization of the offering, meaning
the solution tailored to meet the customer’s needs. For example, in the ﬁercely
competitive market for large medical equipment such as magnetic resonance
imaging, Siemens sees itself as a solution supplier. In addition to the actual device,
the company offers various services (Kotler et al. 2007): Construction advice for
the rooms needed to house the equipment, equipment installation, training of
operating personnel, ﬁnancing offers, 24-h repair service, online troubleshooting
and much more. However, from this vast range of additional services, Siemens
offers each hospital only the services that it actually needs. The respective solution
package is always designed to meet the individual wishes of the customers.

This requires that the customer contribute his own resources for the supplier to
be able to offer his service. Such customer resources can be information, persons,
objects, rights or nominal goods that the supplier temporarily provides. The cus-
tomer to some extent becomes integrated in the manufacturer’s service creation
process. Figure 7.2 demonstrates the principle of customer integration.

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

201

Service potential

Internal
Factors

Potential factors
Consumption factors

Service
creation
process

Service Result

Supplier

Potential factors

Consumption 
factors

Pre-

combination

Semi-finished products
Finished products

Persons

Objects
Rights

Nominal goods

Service
bundle

Customer

External

Information

External
Factors

Fig. 7.2 Integrative service creation. Source: Based on Kleinaltenkamp (2008, p. 434)

In regard to the integration of the customer’s resources, there are four potential
cases, differing from one another in regard to time and location (Kleinaltenkamp
et al. 2004). In the ﬁrst case, the supplier implements resources over the long term
with the customer, typical e.g. for transportation networks or repair centers. In the
second case, the supplier’s resources are applied only temporarily by the customer
and then taken back once the service has been created. Maintenance and service
work are examples of this. In the third case the customer relocates his resources and
the service is created at the supplier’s facility, e.g. when ships or airplanes are
serviced. The last case allows the resources to be merged virtually, like remote
diagnosis and maintenance. Figure 7.3 shows the different types of resource
integration.

The way in which resources are integrated is often determined by technical
aspects, such as when the supplier’s or customer’s resources are immovable. If this
is not the case, effectiveness and efﬁciency factors are decisive, whereby virtual
creation of services can demonstrate its advantages.

Because the customer is more integrated in the service creation process, a
transaction that proceeds successfully for both parties leads to bonding effects.
These effects are the result of switching costs incurred by the customer for the
transactions on the one hand. On the other hand they result from learning processes
experienced by the supplier.

Switching costs that the customer incurs through customer integration can be
attributed to having gained the customer’s trust and to resource speciﬁcity of factors
related to the customer (Kleinaltenkamp 2008).

202

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Service creation process

Company 
boundary

Resources

of

purchaser

Resources

of

supplier

Service creation process

Resources

of

purchaser

Resources

of

supplier

CUSTOMER

Customer resources
are periodically 
at supplier

Supplier resources 
are permanently at 
customer

Supplier resources 
are periodically at 
customer

Service creation process

SUPPLIER

Resources

of

purchaser

Resources

of

supplier

Virtual 
service
creation
process

Service creation process

Resources

of

purchaser

Resources

of

supplier

Fig. 7.3 Resource integration in the individual creation of service. Source: Based on
Kleinaltenkamp et al. (2004, p. 632)

When an individual solution is to be created, the customer often cannot deter-
mine yet upon conclusion of the contract whether the supplier really can provide the
solution that the customer expects. The essential risk is that, when the service is
created, the production factors required of the customer (primarily information, but
also persons, rights and objects) are not or cannot be completely provided, leading
to faults in service creation. So the solution supplier has to strive to minimize the
risk perceived by the customer ahead of such a transaction. If a supplier has
already performed previous transactions with this customer, which is common in
business relationships, and he has managed integration of customer factors well, the
customer’s trust in this supplier (in-supplier) will most likely be greater than the
trust he would have in an out-supplier. So the supplier’s goal should be to integrate
external factors, particularly information required from the customer. Instruments
such as those included in Table 7.2 are well suited to this purpose.

If services speciﬁc to one customer are planned to extend over a longer period,
such as those described in Example 1 between Wu¨rth Industrie Service and
Liebherr, customers are often encouraged or even obligated to make speciﬁc
investments in the business relationship with the supplier themselves. A classic
example of this is the establishment of remote data transmission with application-
speciﬁc software; this is common with just-in-time supply agreements. A customer
does not reap the maximum beneﬁt of such speciﬁc investments in a business

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

203

f
o

e
g
n
a
h
c
x
E
(cid:129)

n
o
i
t
a
m
r
o
f
n
I

l
e
n
n
o
s
r
e
p

s
e
l
p
m
a
s

:
r
e
f
s
n
a
r
t

s
k
r
o
w
t
e
n

c
i
l
b
u
P

(cid:129)

s
l
a
n
i
m
r
e
T
(cid:129)

)
g
n
i
r
e
e
n
i
g
n
e

n
o
i
t
a
c
i
l
p
p
a
(

h
c
a
o
r
p
p
a

g
n
i
r
e
e
n
i
g
n
e

n
o
i
t
a
z
i
n
a
g
r
O

(cid:129)

n
i
a
h
c

e
u
l
a
V

(cid:129)

)
n
o
i
t
a
c
ﬁ
i
l
a
u
q

l
e
d
o
m

e
c
n
e
u
q
e
S

n
o
i
t
a
c
i
n
u
m
m
o
C

g
n
i
t
n
i
r
p
e
u
l
B
(cid:129)

n
o
i
t
a
l
l
e
t
s
n
o
c

n
o
i
t
c
e
l
l
o
c

a
t
a
D

h
c
a
o
r
p
p
a
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
p
o
o
C
(cid:129)

s
l
e
n
n
a
h
c

n
o
i
t
a
l
l
e
t
s
n
o
c

e
c
a
f
r
e
t
n
I

n
o
i
t
a
m
r
o
f
n
i

g
n
i
r
e
h
t
a
G

e
t
i
s
-
n
O

(cid:129)

e
c
n
e
s
e
r
p

)
g
n
i
d
l
i
u
b
m
a
e
t
(

n
o
i
t
a
c
ﬁ
i
l
a
u
Q

(cid:129)

n
o
i
t
a
m
r
o
f
n
I

g
n
i
y
u
B
(cid:129)

s
i
s
y
l
a
n
a

r
e
t
n
e
c

a
i
d
e
m

,
t
p
e
c
n
o
c
m
e
l
b
o
r
p
(

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c
m
o
r
f

s
n
o
i
t
a
c
ﬁ
i
c
e
p
S

(cid:129)

,
t
p
e
c
n
o
c

n
o
i
t
u
l
o
s
(

r
e
i
l
p
p
u
s

m
o
r
f

s
n
o
i
t
a
c
ﬁ
i
c
e
p
S

(cid:129)

)
”
s
t
a
h
w
“

,
t
p
e
c
n
o
c

e
s
u

,
s
s
e
n
e
v
i
t
c
e
f
f
e

d
e
r
i
u
q
e
r

s
e
h
c
a
o
r
p
p
a

l
a
i
t
r
a
P

s
d
e
e
n

n
o
i
t
a
m
r
o
f
n
I

f
o

e
g
n
a
h
c
x
E
(cid:129)

e
e
y
o
l
p
m
e
(

h
c
a
o
r
p
p
a

r
e
t
o
m
o
r
P
(cid:129)

)
”
w
o
h
“

,
t
p
e
c
n
o
c

y
g
o
l
o
n
h
c
e
t

,
s
t
c
e
j
b
o

d
e
r
i
u
q
e
r

s
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c

e
l
g
n
i
s

o
t

d
e
t
a
l
e
r

n
o
i
t
a
m
r
o
f
n
i

g
n
i
n
i
a
t
b
o

r
o
f

s
t
n
e
m
u
r
t
s
n
i

d
e
t
c
e
l
e
S

2
7

.

e
l
b
a
T

)

D
F
Q

(

t
n
e
m
y
o
l
p
e
d

n
o
i
t
c
n
u
f

y
t
i
l
a
u
Q

(cid:129)

)

M
Q
T
(

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
m
y
t
i
l
a
u
q

l
a
t
o
T
(cid:129)

s
e
h
c
a
o
r
p
p
a

g
n
i
r
e
e
n
i
g
n
e

s
u
o
e
n
a
t
l
u
m
i
S

(cid:129)

e
v
i
s
n
e
h
e
r
p
m
o
C

)
0
0
0
2
(

b
o
c
a
J

d
n
a

r
e
b
i
e

W
n
o

d
e
s
a
B

:
e
c
r
u
o
S

204

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

relationship until subsequent transactions with the supplier occur. In an alternative
supply relationship, such investments would have to be made all over again. So if a
supplier is successful in expanding customer integration as a prerequisite for even
better solutions to include speciﬁc investments, the business relationship becomes
even stronger.

In addition to an increase in the customer’s switching costs, successful customer
integration also leads to learning processes for the supplier (Kleinaltenkamp and
Dahlke 2006). In the course of creating a service, the supplier inevitably gains
insight into certain circumstances surrounding the customer, into problems and also
potential approaches to solving the problems. Especially in sectors in which
customer integration is essential, e.g. management consulting, further transactions
between the supplier and the customer are frequently the result of the supplier
identifying problematic issues in the course of creating a service and then
presenting a solution to the customer. The knowledge that the supplier gains
through customer integration can be used to create better and even more
individualized solutions for future transactions as well as to streamline customer
integration processes (Kleinaltenkamp 2008).

7.2.3 Cross-selling

One possible ﬁrst step from being a product supplier to becoming a solution
supplier is cross-selling. With cross-selling, customers are offered additional phys-
ical products and services besides those already being purchased from the supplier.
The intention of cross-selling is to achieve sales to an existing customer that affect
multiple offers (Homburg and Scha¨fer 2006). For the customer, beneﬁts can include
preferential treatment by the supplier and cost reductions due to a decrease on the
side of the total supplier base.

By practicing cross-selling, companies hope to create growth opportunities in
otherwise stagnant markets by increasing the supplier share with their own
customers; this is considered easier that acquiring new customers (Kamakura
et al. 1991). Another aspect that makes cross-selling attractive is that the achieved
revenue increases generally go along with disproportionately lower cost increases.
Publications also point out the mutual positive effect of customer loyalty and cross-
selling (Reinartz et al. 2008).

In light of this, it is even more amazing that the cross-selling potential has been
utilized only inadequately in many industries. According to an empirical study by
Scha¨fer (2002), companies in the chemical and the mechanical engineering sector
exploit only 32.6 and 34.9 % of the cross-selling potential—and they are amongst
the forerunners (Homburg and Scha¨fer 2006).

Cross-selling always begins with the customer’s needs for additional services.
It is irrelevant whether these are previously unmet needs or needs that have been
met by a different supplier in the past. The supplier needs to reveal the customer’s
unmet needs, especially latent needs, meaning that the customer has recognized the
problem but has not found an acceptable solution. If the customer’s needs for cross-

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

205

selling services have so far been met by other suppliers, cross-selling endeavors are
comparable to predatory competition.

In regard to the timing of cross-selling, additional services can be offered at the
same time as the original service as well as deferred. As current examples in
consumer marketing have shown (e.g. when a customer buys a sandwich at a rest
area, he is asked if he would like coffee to go along with it), cross-selling does not
always require a business relationship, although such a relationship does facilitate
cross-selling (Reinartz et al. 2008). However, a relation between the original
service and the additional offer is necessary in the business-to-business sector.
Whether or not the additional service is something that is already part of the
supplier’s assortment is irrelevant to cross-selling, as long as an additionally
revealed need of the customer can be met (Homburg and Scha¨fer 2006). Such a
case is similar to the constellation of the system integrator introduced in Sect. 7.2.1.
While the speciﬁc constellation of cross-selling, particularly the additional
services offered, are very different in different industries and companies, prelimi-
nary empirical ﬁndings have revealed generally applicable success factors that
promote successful cross-selling in the ﬁeld of sales and business relationship
management (Homburg and Scha¨fer 2006). These include:

In-depth knowledge of the customer’s business processes

(cid:129) Product customization
(cid:129)
(cid:129) Frequent contact with the customer to offer support when problems arise
(cid:129) Frequent contact with the customer to provide information on new products
(cid:129) Frequent contact with the customer to determine his wishes
(cid:129) Frequent contact with the customer to determine changes in his needs
(cid:129) Frequent contact with the customer to detect potential for optimizing the busi-

ness relationship

(cid:129) Frequent contact with the customer to measure customer satisfaction.

7.2.4 Product-related Services

As the previous sections stated, it is often product-related services that open the
door to a supplier, allowing the supplier to be seen as a problem solver and to be
successful in cross-selling. The vast diversity of today’s business-to-business
markets makes it impossible to list and characterize all of the services (Belz
et al. 1997). Figure 7.4 offers an overview of the broad range of product-related
services.

This section will examine product-related services that can be used in various
industries as instruments of business relationship management. After-sales service
is the most closely related to a physical core product, while the services discussed
subsequently can be considered value-added services.

The quality of the product-related services has a considerable effect on the
beneﬁt that the customer perceives from the business relationship (Homburg
et al. 2005; Menon et al. 2005). In addition to maintaining minimum service quality

206

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Act of purchase

"Pre-sales" -services
Decision phase

"At-sales" -services
Integration phase

"After-sales" -services

Usage phase

Decommissioning

Building trust

Securing trust

• Contract preparation
(cid:129) Guarantees
(cid:129) Arranging loan
(cid:129) Feasibility study
(cid:129) Seminars
(cid:129) Conventions
(cid:129) Financing
(cid:129) Organizational

analysis

(cid:129) User training
(cid:129) System analysis
(cid:129) Organizational
development

(cid:129) System planning
(cid:129) Customizing
(cid:129) Installation/assembly
(cid:129) Adaptive

programming/ 
modification

(cid:129) Solution of

interface problems

(cid:129) …

(cid:129) Skills training
(cid:129) Further education
(cid:129) Helpware
(cid:129) Hotline
(cid:129) Troubleshooting
(cid:129) Maintenance/update
(cid:129) Remote diagnosis
(cid:129) Early warning system
(cid:129) Customer magazine
(cid:129) …

(cid:129) Accepting back
(cid:129) Sales aid
(cid:129) Exchange for

used equipment

(cid:129) Recycling
(cid:129) Migration service
(cid:129) Deintegration plan
(cid:129) Support with

organizational problems 
caused by 
decommissioning 

-

(cid:129) …

Fig. 7.4 System components of services. Source: Based on Wimmer and Zerr (1995)

standards, it is important that the supplier charge the customer for the product-
related services (Ploetner 2008).

7.2.4.1 After-Sales Service
The ﬁrst logical reaction to the call for product-related services to complement a
core product and achieve stronger customer loyalty is to establish and expand after-
sales service. Empirical studies show that, for all companies in the manufacturing
industry, after sales service account for only about 25 % of revenue but for about
40–50 % of proﬁt (Kim et al. 2007).

problems.

We consider after sales service as such to include all services required to
facilitate use of the core offering, often a physical core product, and to minimize
potential
and
commissioning, provision of spare parts and technical guidance on product use,
maintenance and warranties (Asugman et al. 1997). Some authors consider all
product-related services to be after-sales service (Baumbach and Mu¨ller 1997);
we wish to refrain from this concept.

installation

generally

include

Such

services

Although some components of after-sales service have become standard and the
customer expects to receive them free of charge (Morschett 2006), others provide
an opportunity for particularly high rates of return: This is the case when the
customer is more interested in supply availability and the reaction time for services
(maintenance, troubleshooting, delivery of spare parts) than in the price (Baumbach
and Mu¨ller 1997). This preference usually prevails when the customer uses the core
product intensively (e.g. metal cutting machine tool or a software system) and its
failure would mean substantially higher downtime expenses elsewhere. To provide
complete coverage for any problems that may arise, many suppliers now offer their
customers full service contracts as shown in Fig. 7.5.

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

207

Full service
contract
Maintenance
contract
Repair
contract
Corrective 
maintenance 
contract

Inspection
contract

(cid:129) Comprehensive service: Functional 
guarantee plus customer consulting
(cid:129) Modernization
(cid:129) Spare parts
(cid:129) Regular inspection plus repairs
(cid:129) Spare parts (limited)
(cid:129) Regular routine inspection plus 
equipment repair
(cid:129) Labor, travel to and from site

(cid:129) Regular routine inspection
(cid:129) Labor, travel to and from site

Full service

Partial 
service

Inspection
service

Fig. 7.5 Classiﬁcation of after sales service contracts. Source: Based on Baumbach and Mu¨ller
(1997)

When after-sales service includes the provision of services, it should be kept in
mind that suppliers of industrial commodities often need other capabilities and that
their competitors are others than those of OEMs. This includes particularly service
logistics, technology and distribution (Baumbach and Mu¨ller 1997). For example,
quick and reliable spare parts logistics is a fundamental requirement of efﬁcient
after-sales service. While national and regional after-sales offers have now reached
a satisfactory level for most customers, this does not seem to be consistently the
case with international business relationships (Asugman et al. 1997; Morschett
2006). The preferred method for achieving the service level in these business
relationships as well often ﬁrst involves external partners (Morschett 2006), similar
to what can be seen in Fig. 7.1 in case of the system integrator.

As with all product-related services, pricing is a critical aspect of after-sales
service itself. While ﬁxed price contracts or cost-based agreements based on the
provision of individual services as the basis for the compensation used to be
common, nowadays so-called performance contracting is becoming more preva-
lent (Kim et al. 2007). With this concept, it is not the performed service that serves
as the basis for the price but a pre-deﬁned result of the service (Sect. 7.5.2). Such
performance contracting requires the supplier to be in complete control of his
processes, but it makes the documentation processes associated with provision of
the service easier and reduces ﬂuctuations in payments. For the customer, perfor-
mance contracting means lower risk: The costs are set from the start, and the
supplier is responsible for maintaining proper functioning of the core offering
purchased. When this is accompanied by changes in the ownership structure of
the production means, e.g. when ownership of spare parts is not transferred to the
customer until the parts are needed, the customer can reduce his current assets and
save capital costs.

208

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

7.2.4.2 Customer Training
Training as a product-related service consists primarily of the transfer from
supplier to customer of information, know-how and suggestions for optimization
of procurement or use of a product (Beutin 2008). In many cases the customer does
not expect training and thus does not miss it. It does, however, give the supplier the
opportunity to distinguish himself from the competition and establish true customer
loyalty. The following Example 2 reveals how Goodyear was successful in doing
this in the business relationship with tire dealers when it came to spare parts.

Example 2: Distance Learning at Goodyear

The US American tire manufacturer Goodyear was one of the ﬁrst companies
to use distance learning as a way to gain customer loyalty. Applying the
method, Goodyear taught the tire ﬁtters of its spare parts sales partners how to
best mount its own tires. Until that point, the ﬁtters preferred to mount tires
for which they were thoroughly familiar with the installation process—and
the new Goodyear tires were cast aside. Once the ﬁtters had completed
training, sales of Goodyear tires in the spare parts business rose signiﬁcantly
(unknown 2008).

When planning such training contents, one place to start is with all of the steps
involved in the use of a product, whereby customers often have a difﬁcult time
with secondary aspects of use like occupational safety, as demonstrated by practical
examples (Beyer 1998).

If a supplier decides to implement a training program for his customers, Llopis

et al. (2006) suggest careful planning of the following aspects:

(cid:129) Goals of the training program
(cid:129) Selection of the customer’s employees to be trained
(cid:129) Duration and schedule of the training program
(cid:129) Location of the training program
(cid:129) Proﬁles of trainers needed
(cid:129) Training methods
(cid:129) Evaluation of the training program
(cid:129) Pricing of the training program

Despite the great practical relevance of suppliers training their customers,
marketing studies have dealt very little with this topic, so substantiated empirical
ﬁndings have yet to be presented. One of the few empirical studies was, however,
able to show that training programs for customers are particularly effective when
they are designed to meet the needs expressed by the customer beforehand (Chow
et al. 2008). So a training program not tailored to the customer’s speciﬁc needs is
much less effective.

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

209

7.2.4.3 Consulting on Improvement of Process and Quality
Besides customer training, consulting on improvement of processes and quality
is especially effective in strengthening a business relationship. The basic concept is
that the supplier and the customer use their respective and common skills to
optimize the processes or quality in the customer’s value creation. Teams
consisting of members from different companies are often formed, reﬂecting
the special capabilities of the participating partners (Stock 2006). The following
Example 3 demonstrates how such a process improvement can occur.

Example 3: Optimizing Shipping Logistics at ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe

is one of

the global

ThyssenKrupp Steel AG (TKS)
leaders in the
manufacturing of high-quality ﬂat steel, supplied primarily to the automotive
industry. To ship its products to about 2,100 customers around the world as
well as to provide raw materials to produce the steel, TKC works with
Deutsch Bahn (DB, the German railroad company). DB uses ﬂat cars devel-
oped especially for the steel industry to transport the TKS steel products. TKS
and DB work together closely on optimizing TKS’s inbound and outbound
logistics and they conduct regular workshops as well. The marked improve-
ment in quality in regard to order processing and information ﬂow between
the two companies was achieved with the implementation of the internet tool
Rail Service Online. It facilitates status messages in realtime, ensuring a high
degree of transparency in the shipping process (Jakubzig 2009).

Approaches to such process and quality improvements can be found in all of the
customer’s relevant value-adding processes. Suppliers and customers in many
industries, e.g. in the automotive or paper industry, apply similar production
technologies, such that any knowledge leads the supplier may have can be used
to improve the customer’s processes. Know-how transfer the other way around is
also conceivable, such as when a component supplier is asked to participate in an
automobile manufacturer’s target costing project (see Sect. 5.3.1.3).

An important supplier decision when suggesting such process and quality
improvement projects is the structure of compensation. In industries with ﬁerce
competition amongst suppliers, it may make sense for a supplier to implement such
measures free of charge as a means to defend the business relationship. However, it
is not advisable to do this in less competitive sectors; this could lead to the customer
expecting regular “freebies.” In cases in which the customer is basically open to this
type of cooperation but is skeptical about the value of the additional services, cost/
beneﬁt sharing models have gained in popularity.

7.2.4.4 Lead User Concepts and Innovation Support
The last product-related service we will introduce here is the lead user concept,
which represents close cooperation between supplier and customer with the goal of
joint innovation. In contrast to the other product-related services, for which, put

210

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

simply, the principle of “service for payment” applies, with lead user cooperation
both sides contribute their special skills, and an exchange of “service for service”
comes about. For the supplier, a lead user cooperation can serve as an instrument to
promote customer loyalty, but it is also intended to increase the company’s com-
petitiveness as it relates to other customers.

According to the principles of the product life cycle concept as well as adoption
and diffusion theory, the time at which purchasers in a relevant market are ready
and willing to “adopt” a product—meaning to buy and use it—that is innovative to
them varies (Kleinaltenkamp and Fließ 2002). Users who accept an innovative
product ﬁrst are referred to as innovators. Because of their early experiences with a
product or with the ﬁrst modiﬁcations to a product, they are of particular importance
to the supplier. They serve as role models for subsequent customers and can provide
a supplier with essential information that he can use for further marketing his
innovative service. This relationship illustrated by the graph in Fig. 7.6, is the
starting point of the lead user concept.

The term lead user was coined by Eric von Hippel (Hippel 1986). He deﬁnes
lead users as follows (Hippel 1986): Lead users are customers or users of products,
systems and/or services,

Time

Lead users of later-
commercialized 
modifications and 
enhancements

Number of users 
with 
need for 
novel product

Lead users 
of novel 
product

Some users 

begin to 
experience/
respond

Market growth

First responsive 

commercial 

product 
introduces

Fig. 7.6 Lead user in the product life cycle. Source: Based on Hippel (1986, p. 797)

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

211

(cid:129) whose current needs can be considered exemplary for the future development of

the overall demand in a market,

(cid:129) who anticipate a substantial beneﬁt from satisfying a certain need, making them

more likely to provide data to meet this need,

(cid:129) who have often implemented their own innovations intended to develop

solutions to their problems and

(cid:129) who are so interested in ﬁnding a solution that they frequently develop their own

prototypes.

Von Hippel claims that customer demonstrating these traits are predestined to
contribute to suppliers’ productivity increase in the development of new products in
rapidly evolving markets in the business-to-business sector. This assessment is
based on the assumption that customers with pertinent experience in future markets
are better able to deﬁne future needs than customers—or even the supplier
himself—without the relevant experience. It can also be assumed that customers
who anticipate great beneﬁt from a potential solution will make every effort to
propagate the required knowledge and to develop the product concepts needed
(Hippel 1986).

A hallmark of lead user cooperation amongst companies is that it extends well
beyond the usual indirect way in which a supplier collects information, e.g. through
market research surveys, as well as beyond the implementation of a product that the
supplier would achieve on his own. A stronger, more targeted cooperation with
leading suppliers can thus be summarized as changing from the “classical model of
product idea generation” to the “model of customer contribution to product
ideas”—a model from which the customer reaps beneﬁts through participation
(Fig. 7.7).

Fig. 7.7 Lead user
cooperation transition from
the classical model to the
model of customer
contribution to product ideas.
Source: Based on Hippel
(1978, p. 40)

Customer

Customer

Customer

Model of classical idea generation

Manufacturer

Determination of 
needs and test

(cid:129) Data collection 
(cid:129)
(cid:129)

Product idea
Presentation of 
idea
Implementation

(cid:129)

Model of idea generation in which customer participates

Customer

Customer

Customer

New product idea 
from customer

Manufacturer

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

Specification of 
idea
Implementation

212

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Notification of need

Notification of need with approach to solution

Invention

Designed prototype

Prototype in application

1

2

3

4

5

N = 74 cooperating companies

(mean values)

Fig. 7.8 Degree and frequency of customer initiative. Source: Based on (Kleinaltenkamp and
Staudt 1991)

Empirical studies have shown that lead user cooperations are particularly preva-
lent in the ﬁeld of research and development (Strothmann et al. 1979; Zo¨rgiebel
1983; Kleinaltenkamp and Staudt 1991). The fact that manufacturers and users
work together to develop solutions to problems does not say anything about the
intensity of
the cooperation though. An empirical study revealed obvious
differences in regard to the extent and frequency of customer initiative. The
“mere” notiﬁcation of a need most often occurred before the type of notiﬁcation
in which a user has already designed an approach to a solution (Fig. 7.8).

This illustration clearly indicates the varying degrees of customer initiative in
cooperation with a manufacturer. The two extremes are a manufacturer-
dominated innovation process in which the producer controls all R&D, produc-
tion and marketing activities, and a user-dominated innovation process in which
the user handles all essential subtasks except for production (Fig. 7.9).

Cooperation with a lead user creates effects that happen before as well as after
introduction of the new product. In positive cases, such a cooperation prior to
introduction of a new product leads to an accelerated innovation process and a
decrease in market entry barriers; synergies between manufacturers and lead users
can be utilized to shorten product development time, attain a higher level of
technology and reduce the cost of R&D applications. It is often precisely these
effects that make entry into a market or earlier entry even possible. These
correlations were conﬁrmed in a series of empirical studies examining the most
varied product and technological ﬁelds (Kirchmann 1994):

The R&D projects that Biegel examined also showed that success rates and
contribution margins were much higher for developments initiated by the customer
than for developments created by the supplier alone. And the cost of R&D was
much higher for the supplier’s own creations than it was for projects initiated by the
customer and was inverse to the success rate (Biegel 1988).

Among other ﬁndings, a study by Kirchmann revealed that cooperations with
users have effects after introduction of the new product as well. This is because they

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

213

Manufacturer-

dominated
innovation
process

User-

dominated
innovation
process

Identification of problem

Definition of problem

Generation of idea

Testing of idea

Implementation of idea

Problem solution result

Production

Commercial use

Only 

manufacturer

activities

Only 

user activities

Fig. 7.9 Manufacturer-dominated and user-dominated innovation process. Source: Based on
Kleinaltenkamp and Staudt (1991, p. 66)

contribute to improving adoption of a new product beyond just the circle of the lead
user(s) (Kirchmann 1994).

Such an effect can be the result of a reduction in the risk associated with use of
the product perceived by other potential customers. This can occur when lead users
play an essential role in the ﬂow of information to other purchasers by e.g. reporting
in brochures or even in face-to-face discussions on their experiences with an
installed reference system (Gu¨nter 1982), or when such a system is used for
demonstrations for other customers. The impact can be ampliﬁed when a lead
user becomes an opinion leader for other (potential) users. Then the customer can
not only witness the functionality and quality of the product or production results, it
also becomes easier to assess the product ﬁnancially and to detect potential
restructuring that may be required. In this respect the adoption processes are
simpliﬁed or shortened even for users who are not part of a cooperation with the
supplier, so working together successfully with lead users accelerates the diffusion
of new products. The projects that Biegel examined also conﬁrmed the positive
impact of a cooperation with lead users after the new product was launched. It

214

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Fig. 7.10 Potential impact
of a lead user from a
manufacturer’s point of view.
Source: Based on
Kleinaltenkamp and Staudt
(1991)

Lead user

Manufacturer

Other 
purchasers

= Information transfer
= Goods transfer
= Technological ideas 
(from notifications of need to usage in 
tested prototypes)

emerged that projects initiated by the customer were implemented much more
quickly that a supplier’s “own” creations (Biegel 1988). Another empirical study
conducted at 3 M showed that products developed with the aid of the lead user
concept generated revenue eight times higher than comparable innovations devel-
oped in a traditional innovation process (Lilien et al. 2002).

So from the point of view of a manufacturer in the business-to-business sector,
the most appealing cooperation partners are users with a high potential for
innovation, meaning a positive effect in regard to speed of the R&D process and
to successful implementation of a new product, as well as a high reference
potential for other customers in the target group to which the supplier aspires
(Fig. 7.10).

Hence, the features mentioned here should be applied as selection criteria when

choosing and approaching potential lead users.

Since it is also a fact that companies with long-term business relationships with
their customers beneﬁt from a signiﬁcantly higher number of customer initiatives, it
follows that consistent maintenance of the relationships with such interesting
customers can make it easier to initiate lead user cooperations and can lead to
greater success.

7.3

Instruments of Distribution Policies

Distribution policy is the second area of instrumental business relationship man-
agement that we will examine. These instruments are also intended to create a
customer beneﬁt that motivates the customer to remain in the business relationship.
Therefore the two instruments introduced here are examples of tools that increase

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

215

customer loyalty. We will focus on efﬁcient consumer response (Sect. 7.3.1) and
just-in-time delivery (Sect. 7.3.2). While efﬁcient consumer response emphasizes
cooperation between a manufacturer and a retailer (some authors see it as a special
type of just-in-time delivery; refer to Germain et al. 1994), just-in-time delivery
refers primarily to business relationships between component suppliers and
manufacturers. What both instruments have in common is that they require speciﬁc
investments by the supplier and the customer and that they develop a strong impact
on customer loyalty.

7.3.1 Efficient Consumer Response

The concept of efﬁcient consumer response (ECR) dates back to an initiative by
trading companies and manufacturers of brand-name products in the USA in 1992.
The intention was to provide an opportunity to avoid the increasing competitive
pressure from discounters and to reproduce the success of other cooperation models
(Lietke 2009).

ECR can be interpreted as “a comprehensive management concept on the basis
of vertical cooperation between industry and trade, with the goal of more efﬁciently
satisfying consumer needs” (Seifert 2006, p. 52). The term covers customer (mar-
keting) processes as well as supplier (particularly logistics) processes as shown in
Table 7.3.

Implementation and coordination of the ECR sub-processes is based primarily
on the establishment of a common IT architecture, which—in addition to the
customer and supplier processes—is the third essential element of ECR (Corsten
and Kumar 2005). The signiﬁcance of information technology is apparent in the
following Example 4.

Example 4: Efficient Consumer Response at dm

“With its specially created extranet, the German drug store chain ‘dm
drogerie markt GmbH & Co KG’ in Karlsruhe allows its industry partners
and suppliers to access its data warehouse and view current numbers anytime.
This open information policy helps manufacturers to plan better. It ensures
that shelves are well stocked, offers insight into tops and ﬂops and is a
valuable marketing aid. Consumers, manufacturers and the retail chain all
beneﬁt equally.” (Hermes 2009).

Various empirical studies offer insight into the prerequisites and success factors
for successful implementation of an ECR cooperation. A study by Corsten and
Kumar (2005) revealed that speciﬁc investments made by the supplier, followed by
the deployment of cross-functional teams to implement ECR as well as the use of
appropriate incentive systems had the greatest inﬂuence on a successful ECR
cooperation. Seifert (2006) study, on the other hand, identiﬁes as the requirements

216

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Table 7.3 Sub-processes of ECR

Sub-process

Goal of sub-process

By the customer
(marketing)

Efﬁcient product
(development &)
introduction (EPI)
Efﬁcient promotion (EP)

By the supplier
(especially
logistics)

Efﬁcient store assortment
(ESA)
Efﬁcient replenishment
(ER)

Efﬁcient operating
standards (EOS)
Efﬁcient administration
and systems (EAS)

Efﬁcient sourcing (ES)

Efﬁcient controlling (EC)

Development and introduction of new
products designed to meet customer needs

Harmonization of promotion activities
between manufacturers and retailers by
communicating the beneﬁt to consumers
Provision of a complete, consumer-oriented,
shopping-friendly assortment
Maintaining adequate stock; optimizing
warehouse restocking by sharing delivery
responsibilities
Optimizing operative logistics by
coordinating and standardizing ﬂow of goods
Optimizing ﬂow of documents and
information; optimizing IT network and data
warehouse
Optimizing ﬂow-based pull systems by
integrating upstream suppliers
Optimizing billing and forecast systems (with
the introduction of collaborative planning
forecasting and replenishment - CPFR,
activity-based accounting, realtime
controlling)

Source: Based on Lietke (2009, p. 14)

for successful implementation of ECR: involvement of top management; mutual
trust between the ECR partners, early successes; continuous measurement of the
ECR success; the use of modern information technology and cost accounting
methods; proximity to customers; change in the organizational structure; and
employee training (Lietke 2009).

An increase in the supplier’s economic performance as well as improved
competitive capabilities were determined to be the effect of an ECR cooperation
(Corsten and Kumar 2005). However, this study indicated that the supplier per-
ceived an impression of inequitable distribution of burden and beneﬁt in the
business relationship; the impression was less pronounced when the supplier and
dealer felt mutual trust. Therefore the supplier’s participation in an ECR coopera-
tion with a retail partner may intensify the business relationship between the two
partners, but distribution aspects resulting from the cooperation should be trustfully
regulated to the satisfaction of both partners.

7.3.2 Just-in-Time Delivery

In addition to cooperations with trading companies as part of ECR, suppliers can
secure the business relationship by entering into cooperations with an emphasis on

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

217

distribution with manufacturers of the immediately downstream market level. An
example can be found in the cooperations between component suppliers and
assembly plants as part of just-in-time delivery (JIT component suppliers) in the
automotive industry; the concept is becoming more common in other industries as
well (Bernard 1996).

The fundamental idea of JIT delivery is to streamline supply chains and to
eliminate intermediate storage facilities by providing the component supplier
products when they are needed for production. To achieve this, the component
supplier has to make every effort to avoid mistakes and to achieve 100 % perfec-
tion, meaning that he cannot deliver any faulty, incomplete or delayed products. To
be able to achieve this from an organizational aspect, JIT delivery often entails
maintaining several small intermediate storage facilities along the supply chain,
using EDI (electronic data interchange) systems between businesses, and transfer-
ring supporting processes such as quality assurance to the responsibility of the
supplier (Bernard 1996; Germain et al. 1994). This reconﬁguration of the responsi-
bilities between customer and component supplier is accompanied by changes in
the organizational structure of the component supplier. As the empirical study by
Green and Inman (2006) shows, successful application of JIT delivery is possible
only when cross-functional and cross-departmental cooperation (integration) are
strengthened, when performance monitoring in intensiﬁed, and when the degree of
specialization is increased.

The essential catalyst for the development of this type of delivery has been the
constantly changing market and competitive conditions in the European automotive
industry in recent years, which has led to a fundamental evolution in the procure-
ment behavior of automobile manufacturers. While the European automotive
industry was characterized primarily by mass-produced, mostly standard products
well into the 1980s, this concept that had been applied successfully for many years
was increasingly displaced in the 1990s by various forms of “lean” production
(Krafcik 1988; Womack et al. 1990). The concept of mass production was pushed to
its “natural limits” by increasingly short development and production times and the
market-induced demands for smaller but more differentiated series at the lowest
cost possible (Pine 1993). In addition to this came the introduction of new types of
vehicles as well as a wider range of special features and technical innovations,
triggering a drastic rise in the number of interfaces that automobile manufacturers
have to coordinate and leading to overly complex structures and processes.

A way out of this situation came in the restructuring of procurement, from the
traditional, adversative acquisition of parts to the purchasing of highly aggregated
modules and systems. The fundamental idea of module and system procurement
is to decrease complexity by reducing the vertical range of
in this context
manufacturing as well as the number of directly supplying companies,
thus
disentangling the value-adding steps and making them more manageable
(Fig. 7.11).

In contrast

to traditional procurement of individual parts from different
suppliers, module and system procurement means that the parts previously acquired
separately are aggregated to pre-assembled, ready-to-install functional groups.

218

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Fig. 7.11 Disentangling
value-adding steps. Source:
Based on Kleinaltenkamp and
Wolters (1997)

1970s to 1980s

Final assembly line

Module

Module

Pre-assembly line

Pre-assembly line

Supplied components

Supplied components

1990s to ?

Final assembly line

Just-in-time
Delivery

Module
Assembly of supplied 
components

System

Assembly of supplied 
components

Supplied components

Supplied components

Modules differ from systems in that vehicle manufacturers design and develop
them and component suppliers produce them. System procurement is additionally
characterized by the supplier adding signiﬁcant value to development, production
and logistics (Wolters 1994). It allows the component suppliers as well as the
automobile manufacturers to greatly increase their efﬁciency, which can be
attributed primarily to the following causes (Kleinaltenkamp and Wolters 1997):

(cid:129) The transfer of supplier know-how or tapping of additional potential for devel-
opment and innovation on the part of manufacturers due to close and early
cooperation with the system suppliers during the concept phase

(cid:129) Utilization of design-to-cost potentials by adapting sub-groups to the component

(cid:129)

supplier’s manufacturing conditions
Intensive communication between component suppliers and assembly plant, thus
stabilizing the business relationship, reducing the number of coordination
problems, accelerating the solution ﬁnding process and leading to an overall
lower number of changes before the series run

(cid:129) Transaction cost savings (initiation, agreement, processing, assimilation and

supervision costs) by drastically reducing the number of direct suppliers

(cid:129) Transfer of extensive assembly tasks to the system supplier by procuring com-
plete, pre-assembled systems, thus tapping cost reduction potential in personnel,
production and logistics

(cid:129) Reduction of customer care and coordination expenses as well the cost of quality

control by transferring responsibility for the system to the supplier.

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

219

Table 7.4 System procurement’s net effects of rationalization

Research and
development

Beneﬁts to manufacturers

(cid:129) Specialization in core
competencies
(cid:129) Fewer modiﬁcations
(e.g. tools)
(cid:129) Quick solution
(cid:129) Reduction in engineering
capacities

Procurement

(cid:129) Reduction in suppliers
(cid:129) Fewer part numbers
(cid:129) Less purchasing personnel

Production
and logistics

(cid:129) Reduction in pre-assembly
(cid:129) Less potential for errors
(assembly)
(cid:129) Reduction in number of
storage facilities
(cid:129) Less ﬂoor space required
(cid:129) Reduction in logistics
interfaces (e.g. incoming
deliveries)

Beneﬁts to
component suppliers

Net effect of
rationalization

(cid:129) Specialization in
core competencies
(cid:129) Better utilization of
special equipment
(cid:129) Better utilization of
carry-over parts
(cid:129) Designs ready to be
manufactured

(cid:129) Greater processing
volume
(cid:129) More economic
utilization
(cid:129) Better utilization of
information systems
(cid:129) Larger batches
(cid:129) Better capacity
planning and
utilization

(cid:129) Reduced
development times
(cid:129) Better-
engineered
products
(cid:129) Lower
development costs
(cid:129) Reduction in
personnel
expenditures
(cid:129) Reduction in
personnel
expenditures
(cid:129) Reduction in
material costs

(cid:129) Economies of
scale
(cid:129) Lower quality
assurance costs
(cid:129) Reduction in
personnel
expenditures
(cid:129) Learning curve
effects
(cid:129) Lower cost of
capital employed
(cid:129) Better product
and process
quality

Source: Based on Kleinaltenkamp and Wolters (1997)

The cross-company beneﬁts of system procurement mentioned above can be
illustrated with an analysis of the net effects of rationalization (Table 7.4). While
system procurement means that the automobile manufacturer is able to decrease
costs in all functional areas, it also means that the system supplier’s expenses rise
initially due to the expansion of his scope of services. However, examination of the
total costs shows that the relative cost increase to the system suppliers is 20–30 %
lower than the savings to the vehicle manufacturer (Wolters 1995). This can be
attributed to fewer redundancies, economies of scale and learning curve effects, and
to wage beneﬁts for the suppliers. Furthermore, the system supplier beneﬁts from
greater entrepreneurial autonomy and a longer term planning horizon, which has a
positive impact on strategic planning and enables him to promptly adapt corporate
structures to current market demands. Establishment of a JIT system with a
customer often means that the supplier’s share of delivery to this customer rises
substantially or, in the case of single sourcing, increases to 100 % (Bernard 1996).

220

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

System procurement inevitably creates a close commitment between component
suppliers and assembly plants, and both sides are required to make substantial
investments in resources speciﬁcally for the business relationship. In addition to
“soft” forms of coordination such as trust, satisfaction, etc. (Chap. 3), new types of
cooperation between the parties become a fundamental necessity. The system
supplier faces the challenge of presenting the customer with an offering that not
only meets the quality demands of the customer and is in agreement with his price
expectations, the offering must also be adapted to the time at which the customer
expects delivery. Added to this is the expectation that the offering will be continu-
ously and dynamically adapted to the evolving situation and external
discontinuities. Freiling (1995) points out that such a cooperation is possible only
with far-reaching reorganizational measures on the part of the component supplier
as well as within the cooperation between the component suppliers and the assem-
bly plant (Freiling 1995).

A JIT cooperation is well-suited as a monitoring and control system for the type
of partnership described here—a partnership that goes well beyond the normative
guidelines of the traditional JIT concepts (Backhaus and Meyer 1990). The JIT
cooperation is based on the concept that the customer will suffer disadvantages if a
product or service is provided too early or too late. So a JIT offering is based on a
speciﬁed offering being provided at a precise time, whereby the range of services
offered is not limited to logistical aspects (Freiling 1995). It is apparent that, when a
service is created applying JIT factors, the process is founded on reliability and
stability. In customer companies, the JIT cooperation is often coupled with other
lean production concepts such as kanban systems, total quality management and
quality function deployment (Bernard 1996; Inman et al. 2011; Piercy and Morgan
1997; Zelbst et al. 2010). On the basis of the term co-makership, coined by Merli
(1991), a JIT cooperation is characterized by the following attributes:

(cid:129) The basis of
commitment.

the companies’ cooperation is a long-term contractual

(cid:129) The component supplier is responsible for developing functionally deﬁnable

assemblies and is integrated in the development process early.

(cid:129) A wide range of development and production tasks is assigned to the component
supplier, who then performs the tasks on his own and assumes the full warranty.
(cid:129) The supplier delivers the procured items when they are needed for production,

and the customer does not need to store them temporarily for inspection.

(cid:129) The manufacturer supports the component supplier with training and consulting,

facilitating ongoing improvement of prices and quality.

(cid:129) The manufacturer and component supplier continuously share information on

enhancing products and processes.

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

221

Table 7.5 System supplier tasks in potential areas of cooperation of a JIT cooperation

Development of supplied
parts

Serial delivery of
supplied parts

(cid:129) New development of
supplied parts
(cid:129) Continued development
of supplied parts

(cid:129) Procurement of
primary material
(cid:129) Production
(cid:129) Distribution
(cid:129) Installation in the
ﬁnal product

Source: Based on Freiling (1995, p. 286)

Delivery of
spare parts

(cid:129) Provision of
spare parts
(cid:129) Installation
support

Taking back old
parts

(cid:129) Logistics of
retrieving old parts
(cid:129) Scrapping or
recycling

Table 7.5 provides an overview of the resulting areas of cooperation of a just-in-

time cooperation.

When choosing suitable cooperation partners, a vehicle manufacturer will gen-
erally base his selection on past experience with current and potential component
suppliers. Only suppliers who have proven to be reliable business partners and who
have a solid reputation are considered as potential cooperation partners. When
assessing the range of services offered by the component supplier, the following
criteria are often examined (Freiling 1995):

(cid:129) Consistent performance, providing conclusions on the reliability of the compo-

nent supplier’s providing service to the assembly plant at the right time

(cid:129) Effectiveness in the sense of the component supplier’s willingness to accept

orders from the assembly plant

(cid:129) Quality of the service, which offers insight into how many deliveries have not

met customer requirements

(cid:129) Component supplier’s willingness to provide information that indicates to the

assembly plant the degree of transparency of the workﬂow

(cid:129) Flexibility (of service/performance) as an indicator of the component supplier’s
ability to react to the assembly plants request—sometimes on short notice—for
modiﬁcations.

Thus a supplier attempting to gain a customer in the automotive industry as a
cooperation partner should consider these assessment variables to be the target
variables of his marketing activities, and his strategic and operative measures
should be designed to meet these objectives.

Although JIT delivery has become more popular and gained a strong following
over the past two decades, it cannot be considered a cure-all for cooperation within
value-adding chains. In looking back over 20 years of JIT practice and research,
Polito and Watson (2006) see the following problems and limitations for the
implementation of JIT cooperations (Table 7.6).

222

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Table 7.6 Limitations of JIT delivery

Problems with JIT systems

Economic situation &
demand

Logistics

Organizational
requirements

Cost-accounting
systems

Small company

(cid:129) Strong ﬂuctuations in raw materials prices
(cid:129) Fluctuations in availability of capital, especially for medium-sized
companies due to economic cycle
(cid:129) (Strongly) ﬂuctuating demand
(cid:129) Great distance between supplier and JIT customer
(cid:129) Capacity of transport system
(cid:129) Global sourcing (purchasing supplier services worldwide)
(cid:129) Being forced to use expensive air freight instead of less costly means
of transportation (esp. maritime shipping) to meet short-term demand
(e.g. in the global textile industry), leading to loss of cost beneﬁts of
JIT
(cid:129) Decreasing availability of suitable personnel
(cid:129) Inappropriate organizational structures, such as distinctive
hierarchies and limited accountability of employees
(cid:129) Ill-suited incentive systems (e.g. piece-work payment)
(cid:129) Monthly or quarterly reporting periods not suited to continuous, long-
term improvement processes of JIT cooperation
(cid:129) Common performance indicators reﬂect only plan deviations, not the
actual reasons; this can sabotage efforts made as part of a JIT
cooperation
(cid:129) Cost disadvantages regarding supplied products due to smaller
quantities purchased
(cid:129) No control over inclusion of own component suppliers on JIT system
(cid:129) Difﬁculty recruiting qualiﬁed personnel for JIT implementation

Source: Based on Polito and Watson 2006

7.4

Instruments of Communication Policies

While the objective of the instruments of product and distribution policies to
strengthen the business relationship is primarily to expand the services utilized
within a business relationship, the instruments of communication policies focus on
controlling the customer’s perception of his beneﬁt. Recapping: The customer
beneﬁt anticipated from a business relationship is always geared towards the
customer’s perception, not towards neutrally or objectively phrased criteria. The
following sections will introduce three concepts as examples of communicative
support of a business relationship. The concepts can more or less be considered
communication policies, since the focus is on sharing information with the
customer.

7.4.1 Complaint Management

Business relationships free of faults on the part of the supplier are a noble goal, but
they are not to be found in the real world. When an error occurs in the processing of

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

223

a transaction within a business relationship, it poses both a risk and an opportunity
for the supplier. If he reacts properly to such a failure, customer satisfaction can be
restored or even increased (Smith and Bolton 1998). If he does not, the worst case
would be termination of the business relationship as well as negative consequences
through bad references expressed to current and potential customers. So good
complaint management is an essential means of protecting the business relation-
ship and possibly even strengthening it.

The following subordinate targets are regularly pursued with complaint man-

agement (Stauss 2008):

(cid:129) Achievement of complaint satisfaction
(cid:129) Prevention of costs attributed to other types of reactions of dissatisﬁed
customers, such as changing suppliers, involving the media, and negative word
of mouth (WOM)
(cid:129)
Implementation and clariﬁcation of a customer-based corporate strategy
(cid:129) Creation of additional acquisition effects by inﬂuencing (positive) WOM
(cid:129) Evaluation and use of information gleaned from complaints
(cid:129) Reduction in internal and external cost of errors

To be able to use complaint management to transform transaction dissatisfaction
to complaint satisfaction, it is essential that a supplier create the proper channels
for dissatisﬁed customers, where ﬁled complaints can be properly registered and
processed, and the customer receives an appropriate reaction. Various tasks are
needed to best utilize the information contained in complaints. The individual steps
in the process of direct and indirect complaint management can be seen in Fig. 7.12.
An empirical study by Homburg and Fu¨rst (2005) revealed that, in regard to the
organization of complaint management, an adequate degree of formalization
(clearly deﬁned processes and responsibilities) as well as a certain ﬂexibility
(particularly in B2B companies) are needed to implement effective complaint
management.

Direct complaint management process

Complaint 
stimulation

Complaint 
acceptance

Complaint 
processing

Complaint 
reaction

Complaint 
evaluation

Complaint 
management
controlling

Complaint 
reporting

Complaint 
information
usage

Indirect complaint management process

Fig. 7.12 Complaint management process. Source: Based on Stauss (2008)

224

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Desired response
to complaint

Complaint
tolerance zone

Acceptable
response to complaint

Comparison

Perceived
response to complaint

P > D

Complaint
enthusiasm

D > P > A
Complaint
satisfaction

P < A

Complaint

dissatisfaction

Fig. 7.13 Development of complaint (dis)satisfaction. Source: Based on Stauss (2008)

The customer’s reaction to how the supplier processes complaints has been
relatively well researched empirically; it follows the expectancy disconﬁrmation
paradigm (Churchill and Surprenant 1982): The customer weighs the perceived
response to a complaint against the response he expected. If the balance is zero or
positive, the result is complaint satisfaction, otherwise it is complaint dissatis-
faction. The expectations that customers have of a response to a complaint do not
follow a uniform standard; they are more of a tolerance zone for responses to
complaints, somewhere between an acceptable response and a desired response to
a complaint (Stauss 2008). The desired response to a complaint is the normative,
ideal expectation standard, meaning the expectation of how a supplier should react
to a customer complaint. The acceptable response, on the other hand, is the
minimum level at which a response to a complaint is perceived as tolerable.
Depending on how the response to the complaint is perceived by the customer in
relation to the tolerance zone, the customer will experience complaint satisfaction,
dissatisfaction or enthusiasm. Figure 7.13 illustrates the correlations.

Another variable examined in this context is the presumed response to a com-
plaint. Depending on certain factors, customers form an image of how a supplier
might respond to their complaint. This presumed response then affects what they
would consider to be an acceptable response to the complaint.

When the factors affecting the response to a complaint are examined individu-
ally, there are factors that determine the complaint tolerance zone as well as factors
related to the perception of the response to the complaint. The following factors are
determinants of the complaint tolerance zone:

(cid:129) Understanding of one’s role: The stronger the customer’s perception of himself

as a customer to be courted is, the higher his expectations tend to be

(cid:129) Relevance of problem: As the problem that triggered the complaint becomes

more relevant, the expectations of the response to the complaint rise

(cid:129) Perceived fault of supplier

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

225

(cid:129) Explicit and implicit promise to react
(cid:129) Previous complaint experiences
(cid:129) WOM from other customers

In regard to the perception of the response to the complaint, one can differen-
tiate between the two dimensions result of the complaint and complaint process.
The result of the complaint is evaluated on the basis of how appropriate and fair it
is, while the complaint process is evaluated based on the factors accessibility,
quality of interaction (friendliness, politeness, helpfulness, initiative, empathy,
reliability) and reaction speed (Stauss 2008).

If by implementing a complaint management system when he makes mistakes
the supplier is successful in accomplishing an appropriate reaction to the complaint,
complaint satisfaction can increase a customer’s overall satisfaction with a business
relationship, possibly even surpassing the level from before the problem occurred
(Smith and Bolton 1998). So adequate complaint management has an indirectly
positive effect on customer loyalty due to customer satisfaction as well as a direct
effect, as shown in the empirical study by Alvarez et al. (2011). Furthermore,
complaint satisfaction and enthusiasm can lead to a positive WOM effect;
customers tell others about their positive experiences (Gelbrich and Roschk 2011;
Rothenberger et al. 2008).

7.4.2 Strengthening the Personal Relationships Between Supplier

and Customer Personnel

Although this book deals with the management of business relationships between
companies, these business relationships are still initiated, maintained and some-
times dissolved by people. The persons involved do much more that ﬁll a
pre-deﬁned role; if this were the case, most business relationships could be
computerized (Bagozzi 2006). Persons involved in the business relationship behave
to a certain degree as business people and to a certain degree as friendly human
beings (Heide and Wathne 2006). Speciﬁcally, employees of the supplier company
establish personal relationships of different types with employees of the customer
company (Beverland 2001). On the one hand, this type of relationship is needed to
process transactions between the companies in the business relationship. But some
such relationships go deeper and have secondary effects on the business relation-
ship between the supplier and customer company. Business friendships between
persons working for the supplier and for the customer are the extreme case
(Beverland 2001; Price and Arnould 1999). However, even less intensive personal
relationships have a positive impact on the business relationship as compared to
human interaction focused only on the transaction, particularly in regard to the
sharing of information and thus communication between the companies.

Palmatier et al. (2007) demonstrate in their empirical study that a customer
company’s relationship to a certain sales representative has a positive effect on
revenue, effectiveness of sales and the customer’s willingness-to-pay, while to the

226

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

supplier company only inﬂuences the willingness-to-pay. It should be noted that
these results were obtained in an environment in which switching costs were
relatively low for both sides. Another empirical study, conducted in the ﬁnancial
sector (B2B), revealed that measures designed to strengthen the personal relation-
ship between supplier and customer personnel (invitations to meals, small gifts,
invitations to entertainment events; a special status for the customer; privileged
information) had a much stronger impact on customer proﬁtability than did perfor-
mance rewards or pricing measures (Palmatier et al. 2006a). The high expenditures
observed in actual practice for such primarily atmospheric measures indicate that
the personal relationship between personnel at the two companies is considered
important.

Guenzi and Georges (2010) claim that the signiﬁcance of the personal relation-

ship differs by industry and is all the more important:

(cid:129) as the credence qualities of the core service increase,
(cid:129) as the focus of the core product on people grows (e.g. consulting),
(cid:129) as the contact time per customer contact lengthens,
(cid:129) as the degree of product/service customization increases,
(cid:129) as the degree of discretion rises (e.g. legal advice),
(cid:129) as the focus from physical products, to services and processes.

Beverland (2001) points out that, particularly in sectors in which there are
multiple suppliers of one core service for which the features and price barely differ
from one another (management consulting, auditing, legal advice), it is the personal
relationship between the customer’s and the supplier’s personnel that is decisive in
choosing or rejecting a business relationship between customer and supplier
companies (Gwinner et al. 1998; Price and Arnould 1999). In such industries, the
customer’s loyalty is less to a company than to a representative of the company,
e.g. the partner in a consulting ﬁrm. It should be pointed out though that the service
relationship between the companies must be good before the personal relationship
can prosper; only then can the business relationship beneﬁt from the personal
relationship (Beverland 2001).

So what can a supplier company do to promote good relationships at the personal
level of its own and the customer’s employees? To be able to reply to this question,
another question must also be considered: What are the traits of good personal
relationships in a business relationship context? According to Gremler and Gwinner
(2000), they are characterized by familiarity, attentiveness and care, friendship,
trust and rapport, whereby rapport and friendship in this context have received more
attention in research.

Gremler and Gwinner (2000) deﬁne rapport between supplier and customer
personnel as the perception of pleasant interaction with one’s counterpart, marked
by an internal connection between the two interacting participants. To use a
common phrase, rapport means “the chemistry’s right” between the participants.
Rapport between supplier and customer personnel
is fostered by similar
philosophies as well as similar personal values and empathy (Campbell

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

227

et al. 2006). One way for a supplier company to promote rapport and thus good
personal relationships between his employees and those of his customer is to allow
similar employees to interact with one another. The similarity can be based on a
content or formal dimension (e.g. same functional background, same level in the
corporate hierarchy), or it can be have a personal-relational dimension (originating
from the same region, similar interests; Steward et al. 2010). Frequent contact also
fosters rapport between supplier and customer personnel (Beverland 2001). After
all, a certain indirect role is assigned to the job satisfaction of the supplier’s sales
reps. Their satisfaction has a positive impact on their efforts to help customers,
which in turn causes the customer’s personnel to gain a positive impression of the
sales reps (Bradford et al. 2009).

Rapport between the supplier’s and the customer’s employees is good for the
supplier company in several ways: It makes the customer more tolerant when the
supplier makes a mistake, and the consequences of a transaction causing dissatis-
faction are not as severe (Campbell et al. 2006). So rapport supports complaint
management. Rapport was also shown to have positive effects on customer satis-
faction, customer loyalty and the probability of recommendation (Gremler and
Gwinner 2000; Guenzi and Georges 2010).

While rapport to some extent constitutes the establishment of a personal rela-
tionship between supplier and customer personnel, a business friendship
represents the extreme case of personal relationships. Between these two poles
there is a progression of the strength of the personal relationship, the manifestation
of which is based on different variables. Whether the customer is looking for a close
or not-so-close personal relationship depends primarily on the personality of the
customer’s employee (Beverland 2001; Swan et al. 2001). According to Swan
et al. (2001), the strength of a personal relationship between the supplier’s and
the customer’s employees depends on the strength of

(cid:129) personal familiarity,
(cid:129) conversations about things other than business topics,
(cid:129) common leisure interests and
(cid:129)

the sales rep’s actions as an advocate and ambassador for the customer within his
own company.

The authors identify three types of relationships that can exist; business friends,
co-workers and business acquaintances. Business friendships are characterized by
social support, sharing of thoughts and great personal candor (self-revelation)
between the parties involved (Price and Arnould 1999). For personal relationships
to transition to business friendships, factors that promote rapport must be
accompanied by other inﬂuenceable conditions (Price and Arnould 1999):

(cid:129) Structural opportunities for social interaction (meals, activities together)
(cid:129) Common environments
(cid:129) Common ground regarding values, standards, lifestyles and personality traits
(cid:129) Friendliness

228

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Similarity and mutual affection as well as mutual dependency in regard to
achieving goals help to create business friendships (Price and Arnould 1999),
whereby these factors can be controlled minimally or not at all. To be able to best
utilize personal relationships for the good of the supplier company, even when
individual employees of the customer change jobs, Beverland (2001) suggests
establishing person relationships with multiple persons within the customer’s
organization (Beverland 2001). It should, however, be kept in mind that various
scandals and a general trend towards greater corporate transparency have led to
pronounced reinforcement of legal and well as corporate compliance regulations
in recent years. So measures intended to fortify the personal relationship between
supplier and customer personnel should always keep an eye on applicable
regulations (Price and Arnould 1999).

feeling of security) and economic (faster service)

However, such measures to strengthen the personal relationship are still worth-
while, because they have many effects. For the customer’s employees with a
personal relationship to employees of another company, the beneﬁts of such a
relationship can be social (friendship, personal recognition), psychological (less
risk, greater
(Gwinner
et al. 1998). Broader, unprompted sharing of business-related information is
linked to good personal relationships (Swan et al. 2001). Personal relationships
can also help to better understand the personal motives of individuals in the
customer’s company. This is important because personal motives may inﬂuence
behavior in a business relationship, such as when the relationship can have an
impact on a person’s career (Beverland 2001). And the fundamental trust felt
towards the supplier company improves, which in turn is positive for the supplier
company when problems occur (Beverland 2001), e.g. when delivery obligations
are not met. The beneﬁts of the personal bond also have an indirect or direct
positive impact (through satisfaction and commitment) on customer loyalty and
the tendency to make recommendation to others (Henning-Thurau et al. 2002).

7.4.3 Cooperations with User Groups

While complaint management and measures
intended to fortify personal
relationships extend well beyond direct and indirect communication with the
customer, communication itself is much more the focus for the user groups
introduced here.

User groups are primarily bodies of computer and system technology users that
arose as the respective technologies became common. Their original purpose was to
create a forum where people from the various ﬁelds of application could exchange
ideas, share their experiences with certain systems and system technologies, and
discuss problems they had encountered (Rothschild 1988; Kleinaltenkamp 1993;
Erichsson 1993). CAD ﬁeld speciﬁcally: Strothmann and Kliche (1989). User
groups are also a way to establish contact with users of system technologies who
have experience with the supplier’s products and services and who are willing to
invite other users to visit their applications. People seeking information tend to

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

229

Table 7.7 Distribution of information gleaned from user groups

Function

Technical management
Network communication
Management information system
Research & development
Business management
Training/further education
Consulting
Administration
Production
Marketing/sales
Purchasing
Market research
Absolute basis: 436

Distribution of information
Always
Occasionally

Never

Not speciﬁed

42 %
34 %
26 %
17 %
11 %
11 %
10 %
4 %
4 %
4 %
4 %
4 %

35 %
27 %
20 %
23 %
33 %
23 %
15 %
19 %
11 %
8 %
10 %
10 %

6 %
8 %
11 %
13 %
20 %
16 %
17 %
27 %
22 %
25 %
23 %
23 %

17 %
31 %
43 %
47 %
36 %
50 %
58 %
50 %
63 %
63 %
63 %
63 %

Source: Based on Erichsson (1993, p. 166)

believe that they will more readily learn about negative experiences with a supplier
when they choose the reference company themselves than as opposed to when the
supplier suggests the company to visit.

The work of such bodies of users focuses increasingly on the issue of technical
interface standardization, no longer looking at the work of a single supplier but at
that of multiple suppliers. The reason is that various users were and still are of the
opinion that their position has to be represented longer term and more clearly, thus
inducing the manufacturers to adapt to uniform standards and to support them
(unknown 1986). On the other hand, users’ passive behavior is often criticized,
and without their participation any attempt to achieve international standards is
fruitless. The executive committees of the user groups see overcoming this pas-
siveness as their ultimate objective. They intend to do this by raising awareness
amongst users and expanding user group channels (unknown 1987). To achieve
their objectives, such user groups “feed” suggestions to national and international
standardization bodies—which is why they are called feeder groups—or they act
as pressure groups, attempting to support the enforcement of existing standards.
One way this happens is that the members coerce manufacturers into applying the
respective speciﬁcations by their choice of purchasing divisions and their market
power.

The signiﬁcance of user groups as an informational instrument for entire user
companies as well as for individual persons within the company is revealed in an
empirical study that examines, among other things, how the information gained
from user groups is passed along in the respective company (Erichsson 1993). The
study clearly indicated that it is particularly technical management that beneﬁts
from the ﬁndings: It receives information on the knowledge gained from user group
meetings always in 42 % of the cases and occasionally in 35 % of the cases
(Table 7.7).

230

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Table 7.8 Roles in purchase decision processes as perceived by user group members

Roles in decision process for computer
technologies

Preparation of information
Initiation of decision process
Deﬁnition of department requirements
Deﬁnition of speciﬁcation
Evaluation of supplier
Advising of those involved in decision
Evaluation of product types
Approval of purchase
Decision
Absolute basis: 429

Source: Based on Erichsson (1993, p. 176)

Absolute
frequency

Frequency as
percentage

256
225
224
223
207
192
192
94
87

58 %
51 %
51 %
51 %
47 %
44 %
44 %
21 %
20 %

Another noteworthy discovery was that the corporate representatives active in
the user groups have signiﬁcant inﬂuence on purchase decision processes—or at
least that is their perception. Of those surveyed, 58 % said that they prepare
information needed to make purchase decisions, and 51 % claimed that they initiate
decision making processes and determine department needs and speciﬁcations. And
almost half of those who replied stated that they were involved in evaluating the
suppliers, advising the decision makers and assessing product types (Table 7.8).

Based on the results presented earlier, it comes as no surprise that users
participating in gatherings see themselves above all as serving an informational
purpose. Sharing information at conferences and the impulses gained in workshops
are essential factors. Equally important are the better opportunities that user groups
provide in gaining an overview of the market as well as the fact that user groups are
a source of information relevant to investment decisions (Fig. 7.14).

So for customers in certain industries, user groups are an essential instrument to
gaining access to information in experiences that other users or customers have had
with the services provided by certain suppliers. And if this really the case, the
question arises as to whether and to what extent a supplier can inﬂuence the
respective information ﬂows to his beneﬁt by cooperating with user groups.

When user groups are involved in a supplier’s communication strategy like this,
the supplier has two fundamental possibilities: either pursue a cooperation with an
existing, user-initiated user group or found a user group himself.

7.4.3.1 Cooperation with User-initiated User Groups
The essential requirement for cooperation with user groups arising from an initia-
tive by users is that the user groups and their members are willing to work together
with a supplier. So when initiating and participating in a user group cooperation of
this type, it is important to bear in mind that the members consider the primary
beneﬁts of a user group to be the sharing of information with other members,
maintaining personal contact with others and solving speciﬁc problems that may

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

231

60 %

40 %

20 %

0 %

Information
sharing at 
conferences

Impulses 
from 

workshops

Influence on 
product
policies

Market-
overview

Agree completely
Agree
Do not agree

Information
source for 
investment
decisions

Improvement
of business
relationship

Absolute basis: 439

Fig. 7.14 Functions of user groups as perceived by users. Source: Based on Erichsson (1993,
p. 182)

occur in workshops (Erichsson 1993). But since user groups are self-organized
bodies, a key focus of the users and especially of their functionaries is to develop
and implement a range of services based on member needs, thus binding active
members and attracting new ones (Erichsson 1993). Thus an essential approach to
successful cooperation with a user group is to support the user group to the greatest
extent possible in precisely these points. There are different ways to express this
support, e.g. by making certain technological or business know-how available
exclusively to members of the user group, or by providing ﬁnancial support for
user group events by paying the fee for an invited guest speaker (Erichsson 1993).
An empirical study of this behavior determined that suppliers were able to establish
a partnership-like relationship with these and similar measures (Erichsson 1993).

When these efforts are met with success, the result is a vast opportunity to beneﬁt
from a substantial multiplier effect in regard to the supplier’s image. The great
beneﬁt of such activities is that, because of the constellation of the user groups and
the internal information activities of the user group members, there is very little
scatter loss (Erichsson 1993). Also, because of their function, their position in the
hierarchy and their signiﬁcance to investment and decision making processes, user
group members can be considered opinion leaders (Kawasaki 1990) whose judg-
ment is signiﬁcant and credible to decision makers within their own company and in
other companies as well. Thus the proper cooperation with a user group can be a
means to targeted and trouble-free communication policy towards substantial
segments of the potential customer base.

232

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Cooperations with user groups can also be expected to have a positive impact on
the image of the products and services offered as well as those of the supplier
company. Such effects can be achieved in different ways at user group events, such
as: independent consultants pointing out the advantages of their products in the
course of their presentations; product developers being able to immediately answer
any technical questions that come up; high-ranking company representatives seek-
ing personal contact to members of the user group, etc. (Erichsson 1993).

At the same time though, the limitations of such cooperations should be kept in
mind. They are primarily the result of the fact that user groups are simply user
bodies. Despite the willingness to cooperate, user group events usually do not allow
suppliers to engage in sales promotion in their own interest; this is usually contrary
to the primary objectives of user bodies. It is also important to keep in mind that
user group conferences generally take place only once or twice per year, so a
supplier’s time frame for conveying information is deﬁnitely limited.

7.4.3.2 Cooperation with Supplier-Initiated User Groups
Another way to cooperate with user groups is to not wait until users initiate the
founding but to initiate or establish such a user body as a supplier. It is conceivable
to scatter user groups across different regions, inviting representatives of customer
companies relevant to the supplier’s target groups to join. At the regular gatherings,
organized by the supplier, selected suppliers can be invited to present their speciﬁc
experiences; discussions can take place with corporate experts from the ﬁelds of
product management, development, sales, customer service and quality assurance;
and participants can have a chance to share their experiences. Also, individual users
can be surveyed at regular intervals, asking them about new needs,
their
experiences with products or general satisfaction with the supplier and the
supplier’s employees. The circle of participants can be examined to possibly
identify customers who could serve as potential pilot users for new products or
as participants in a lead user project.

Furthermore, such focus groups do not necessarily have to be permanently
institutionalized, they can just as well be brought together for speciﬁc cases or
one time only—this would, however, diminish the distinction as a cooperation.
Such events are referred to as customer focus groups, focus groups, forums or
customer conferences (Gu¨nter 1996). Essential topics related to customer-supplier
relationships are discussed with selected customers at such gatherings. The focus is
generally on customer satisfaction, open and hidden complaints, and ways to
improve the business relationships (Gu¨nter 1996).

7.5

Instruments of Pricing Policies

The last section of this chapter deals with the pricing policies of a company and
explains how the pricing policies can promote customer loyalty in a business
relationship. For this to be possible, it is essential to abolish the apparent contradic-
tion that supplier and customer must be antagonistic towards one another in regard

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

233

to price. We will do this in the following Sect 7.5.1, before discussing two speciﬁc
ways to secure the business relationship with certain pricing instruments.

7.5.1 How Pricing Policies Promote Customer Loyalty

In classical microeconomics, the price of an item is the sole criterion in the decision
to purchase or not to purchase. This means that the buyer’s interest and the seller’s
interest are exactly opposite. However, microeconomics are based on homogeneous
goods, which are virtually non-existent in modern business-to-business markets and
even less so in markets in which business relationships are the standard transaction
model. So comparing offerings provided by different suppliers from the customer’s
perspectives using only the price as a gage is misleading. Actually, the deﬁnition of
the price and thus of the approaches for pricing policy must contain a price
numerator (payment) as well as a price denominator (Plinke and So¨llner
2006). The price-performance ratio becomes the focus of considerations.

Particularly the most recent behavioral research on pricing has shown that, from
the purchaser’s point of view, the price not only serves an economic purpose as
“currency” for a transaction, but rather the customer’s complex price perception
determines whether or not a transaction comes about (Homburg and Koschate
2005a, b). The perception is inﬂuenced by information collection, evaluation and
storage, which, taken together, bring about a certain purchase and usage behavior.
Figure 7.15 shows the fundamental relationships and examples of inﬂuencing
factors.

One type of price perception that has become common particularly amongst
industrial customers is the concept of product life cycle costs or the total cost of
ownership (TCO). When assessing the price of a product, the customer compares
the price for the core offering, e.g. the initial cost of a machine tool, to all of the
follow-up costs for the use of the capital good over its lifetime (Diller 2008a). In the

Price information 

assessment
(cid:129)
Price thresholds
(cid:129) Reference prices
(cid:129)

Price-performance 
ratio
Price worthiness
Price fairness

Price information 

intake
Price interest
Price search

(cid:129)
(cid:129)

N
O
I
T
P
E
C
R
E
P

I

R
O
V
A
H
E
B

(cid:129)
(cid:129)

Price information 

storage

(cid:129)

Price knowledge

Spending and product 

usage behavior

(cid:129) Willingness-to-pay
(cid:129)
Payment methods
(cid:129) Mental budgeting

Fig. 7.15 Price perception and usage behavior from the perspective of behavioral science.
Source: Based on Homburg and Krohmer (2009, p. 679)

234

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

case of the machine tool, this includes incidental expenses related to the acquisition
(e.g. transport, connection to existing systems), the costs of spare parts and mainte-
nance, operating expenses for energy and tool consumption as well as potential
“negative costs” related to the resale value of the machine. So from the customer’s
point of view, the relevant price should include all cost and beneﬁt elements of the
service marketed within the business relationship. Thus from the customer’s point
of view, approaches to pricing policy intended to promote customer loyalty can in
principle be found in all cost and beneﬁt elements (Diller 2008a). The following
aspects of uncertainty and capital employed illustrate such approaches.

Particularly when it comes to durable capital goods, often marketed within
business relationships, the cost components of the TCO that can be anticipated in
the future are tainted with uncertainty and difﬁcult for the customer to plan. This
uncertainty is comprised of environmentally induced factors (e.g. development of
energy prices, capital costs) on the one hand and uncertainty intrinsic to the
business relationship (e.g. development of spare parts prices) on the other.
Minimizing such uncertainty can be a goal of pricing policy that leads to greater
customer loyalty.

Another example is the capital employed, which for the customer is linked to
many capital goods. Purchasing the capital good may be deﬁnitely worthwhile for
the customer over the depreciation period, but he may not be able to raise the
amount required for the investment at the time. If the supplier can successfully offer
creative ﬁnancing options along with the core product, the customer’s price per-
ception focus may shift from the (prohibitive) purchase price to a monthly (doable)
rate. This type of ﬁnancial engineering has become an eminently important
instrument of pricing policy in many sectors, one example being the General
Electric corporation, a proponent of this concept for many years now.

The following Sect. 7.5.2 reveals how uncertainty regarding TCO as well as
capital employed can be used to the beneﬁt of pricing policies that promote
customer loyalty. But ﬁrst we will examine the various mechanisms with which
instruments of pricing policy can increase customer loyalty and which role different
parameters of price perception play therein.

When studying mechanisms intended to promote customer loyalty applying
instruments of pricing policy, Diller (2008a) differentiates between bought cus-
tomer loyalty and trust-based loyalty. He considers bought customer loyalty to
be loyalty generated by the supplier offering price incentives within the business
relationship that allow the customer to decrease his TCO. These include e.g. bulk
discounts or bonus agreements that apply when the customer purchases a certain
minimum quantity per year. While these instruments can facilitate the desired sales
and revenue effects, they are highly questionable in regard to the proﬁtability of the
supplier company. When compared to other instruments of business relationship
management, they performed the worst, e.g. in the empirical study conducted by
Palmatier et al. (2006b), and had no positive impact on proﬁtability related to single
customers. Interestingly, such instruments of pricing policy directly affect the price
numerator, meaning the payment.

Trust-based customer loyalty with the aid of pricing policy instruments, on the
other hand, is based not on short-term measures related primarily to the price

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

235

Price image / price attitude

Price trust

Price satisfaction

Price

transparency

Price
security

Price

reliability

reasonableness

Price-

ratio

Price 

worthiness

Fig. 7.16 Segments of price perception of trust-based customer loyalty. Source: Based on Diller
(2008a)

numerator, but on a global positive perception of the price image. According to
Diller (2008a) the price image is comprised of the price trust and the price
satisfaction, which are in turn inﬂuenced by additional factors, as shown in
Fig. 7.16.

So to create a positive price image, a supplier’s goal has to be to ensure price
trust as well as price satisfaction. The respective drivers of these two variables
facilitate this. Price transparency is the clarity of price information in regard to the
price numerator and the price denominator, while price reliability provides infor-
mation on how reliable or unreliable the individual components of the price are
from a TCO perspective. Price reliability can be considered to mean that the prices
stated when the contract was concluded still apply (Diller 2008b). Price reason-
ableness is perceived when the price-performance ratio of an offer is assessed as
better than a reference value, such as a comparable value from a competitor; price
worthiness indicates whether the price-performance ratio over all is “right” for the
customer (Homburg and Krohmer 2009). The best instruments for creating a
positive price image and thus promoting trust-based customer loyalty are those
that bear on both the price numerator and the price denominator.

7.5.2 Choice of Price Denominator

For many customers of business-to-business suppliers, the purchased offerings are
the actual production means. In such cases the role of the offering as a “means to an
end” is out of the question. In the traditional view of a business venture, such capital
goods represented production factors considered to be property of the company and
to have their own value. While this interpretation meant that a customer company
wished to purchase a machine tool, in many companies the thought process evolved
to where it was not ownership of the machine that beneﬁted the customer but usage
of the machine.

In the ﬁrst approach, purchase, the focus in on the machine tool, meaning the
physical product as the price denominator. However, in this case the customer
must anticipate many additional and uncertain cost components of the TCO.

236

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

If the customer takes the second view of a supplier of capital goods, it is no
longer beneﬁcial to offer the physical product and thus the price denominator but to
offer to provide a service instead: Then the customer would no longer pay for the
property but for the service received instead. In this case a service becomes the
price denominator, not the physical product needed to perform the service. This
has several beneﬁts to the customer: Previously ﬁxed costs (machine depreciation)
become variable (only the service is paid for), and previously uncertain costs
(maintenance, repair, spare parts) become calculable. Then every dimension of
price trust is inﬂuenced positively. The company Hilti, manufacturer of profes-
sional electronic traditional tools (hammer drills, saws, etc.), is exemplary in its
implementation of this concept. Hilti offers its key accounts a so-called ﬂeet model,
in which Hilti provides a deﬁned ﬂeet for a ﬁxed monthly fee. Hilti takes care of the
complete management of the ﬂeet (stock control, implementation assessment,
maintenance management, spare parts management, etc.). The customer no longer
pays to purchase and manage the equipment, he only pays for the equipment to be
available for his use (Diller 2008a).

Particularly innovative companies are going a step farther: Instead of the input of
a service, they choose the service output as the price denominator. In this case
only the service is paid for—in our example, the actual cutting performed. This
allows suppliers to achieve a maximum reduction in uncertainty and the greatest
ﬂexibility possible in their contribution to added value for the customer. Kemppi, a
Finnish supplier of welding machines, was very successful in this endeavor. By
partially changing over to supplying the service “welding hours” instead of selling
the actual equipment, revenue and proﬁtability rose markedly. The next step
planned is to offer “welding seams by the meter.”

Another successful example is the wind energy company Enercon:

Example 5: Enercon Wind Energy

“Enercon, number three in the world and technology leader in wind energy, is
going one step farther and is sharing its customers’ entrepreneurial risk. The
Enercon Partner Concept gives customers the assurance of consistently high
wind turbine availability for the ﬁrst 12 years. From servicing to safety
inspections, maintenance and repairs, all eventualities are covered by one
contract. The customers readily embrace this offer. More than 85 % of
customers sign an EPC agreement. The fees for the service contract are
based on the annual wind turbine output. So in pricing its service contracts,
Enercon shares the entrepreneurial risk. Enercon absorbs half of the service
fee for the ﬁrst 6 years of the contract (Simon and Fassnacht 2009).”

So the last step in changing from a price denominator is to transition from
service output to effect of performance. In this case the fee for the service is not
based on what the supplier did for the customer but on the effect that the service had
for the customer. For example, contracts for consulting services do not charge by
the day. Instead, the agreed fee is a pre-deﬁned fraction of the increase in revenue or

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

237

Table 7.9 Choice of price denominator

Price
denominator

Determination

Customer’s uncertainties

Physical product

Purchase price

Availability of
service

Price as a factor of use

Usage of service

Result of service

Price dependent on
service level
Price dependent on result

Durability: Repair, maintenance, spare parts
costs
(cid:129) Secondary usage costs (energy, personnel,
etc.)
(cid:129) Intensity of usage
(cid:129) Usage performance
(cid:129) Effect of performance
(cid:129) Potential secondary usage costs (energy,
personnel, etc.)
(cid:129) Potential intensity of usage
(cid:129) Usage performance
(cid:129) Effect of performance
(cid:129) Effect of performance

cost savings. It is important with such contingent contracts (The fee is linked to the
fulﬁllment of a performance condition), however, to set incentives that encourage
achieving the performance that are compatible for both parties (Thompson 2005).
Table 7.9 provides an overview of the choice of price denominator.

7.5.3 Price Modules and Terms and Conditions Systems

Besides offering different price denominators to increase customer loyalty, the
introduction of a systematic price module concept is particularly advantageous
for B2B suppliers with many different service components. Such modular systems
precisely deﬁne and price the various partial services (Diller 2008a). The customer
can choose the service modules and thus the price modules. So price modules
promote customization of services, but without blundering into the trap of unpaid
“over-engineering” in which the customer receives services that he may not even
want and that include additional services free of charge. A price module system
grants the customer price transparency, because the price of each partial service is
known. When assembling price modules, it is important to ensure consistency
between the prices of the individual service components, whereby the price consis-
tency can originate from customer-based or supplier based comparison logic. It
should be kept in mind that there tends to be greater pricing leeway with less
frequently demanded and regarded partial services, while more popular partial
services and prices with a stronger customer focus should be priced more competi-
tively. Consistency of modular pricing systems includes periodic price adjustment
and communicating the new prices.

In addition to pricing of all partial services, modular pricing systems also offer
bundled prices when service packages of a certain size are chosen. This is a way

238

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

for the supplier to positively inﬂuence the perception of the price-performance
ratio, because the bundled price is a better deal than the sum of the single prices.

If for whatever reasons modular pricing systems cannot be consistently
implemented and bundled prices are more the rule, performance-based terms &
condition systems can ensure that the perception of the price image is positively
affected. Conditions are certain circumstances that, when the customer complies
with them, reduce the price for a supplier service. The following are examples of
such conditions (Diller 2008a):

(cid:129) Purchase volume (e.g. bulk discounts, volume bonuses)
(cid:129) Time of purchase (e.g. trade fair discount)
(cid:129) Terms of payment (e.g. remuneration for collection, early payment discount,

period allowed for payment)

(cid:129) Logistics parameters (e.g. pallets, place of delivery)

All variables in which at least one of the two sides detects a service deserving of
a price reduction can basically be considered as reference points for such conditions
(Diller 2008a).

Like modular pricing systems, terms and conditions systems are intended to
improve a supplier’s fundamental price image without “buying” customer loyalty.
So here, too, it is essential to look at the overall effect of the terms & conditions
system and to grant discounts only in areas in which the customer is particularly
aware of the discount.

Exercises

1. Describe the ultimate goal of using instruments in business relationship

management!

2. State your view on the following: In business-to-business marketing there is

always a “one-size-ﬁts-all” solution for the offering!

3. What is the difference between a “system supplier” and a “system integrator”?
Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of the different types of solution
offerings!

4. Describe the concept of integrative service creation! Explain why this leads to

bonding effects between the transaction partners!

5. What does “cross-selling” mean and which factors promote successful “cross-

selling”?

6. Describe areas of product-related services! Explain speciﬁcally the lead user

concept!

7. Explain the term “efﬁcient consumer response”!
8. Explain the term “just-in-time delivery”! Include an explanation of the net

effects of rationalization of system procurement!

9. How do the instruments of communication policy differ from those of service

and distribution policy?

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

239

10. Describe the complaint management process and state the subordinate goals

pursued with complaint management!

11. Which determinants of the complaint tolerance zone are you familiar with?
12. Describe the two ways in which the supplier can include user groups in

communication strategy!

13. Which types of price perception do you know about in regard to pricing policy

instruments? Brieﬂy describe the processes.

14. Describe the segments of price perception of trust-based customer loyalty!

References

Alvarez, L. S., Casielles, R. V., & Martin, A. M. D. (2011). Analysis of the role of complaint
management in the context of relationship marketing. Journal of Marketing Management, 27
(1/2), 143–164. doi:10.1080/02672571003719088.

Asugman, G., Johnson, J. L., & McCullough, J. (1997). The role of after-sales service in interna-

tional marketing. Journal of International Marketing, 5(4), 11–28.

Backhaus, K., & Meyer, M. (1990). Integrierte Marketing-Logistik. In M. Kliche (Ed.),
241–268).

und Perspektiven

Investitionsg€utermarketing: Positionsbestimmung
Wiesbaden: Gabler.

(pp.

Backhaus, K., & Voeth, M. (2010). Industrieg€utermarketing (9th ed.). Mu¨nchen: Vahlen.
Bagozzi, R. P. (2006). The role of social and self-conscious emotions in the regulation of business-
to-business relationships in salesperson-customer interactions. Journal of Business & Indus-
trial Marketing, 21(7), 453–456. doi:10.1108/08858620610708948.

Baumbach, M., & Mu¨ller, H. (1997). Differenzierung durch Dienstleistungen: Leistungssysteme
im After-Sales-Servcie fu¨r Maschinen und Anlagen. In C. Belz, G. Schuh, S. A. Groos, &
S. Reinecke (Eds.), Industrie als Dienstleister (pp. 128–135). St. Gallen: Thexis.

Belz, C., Schuh, G., Groos, S. A., & Reinecke, S. (1997). Erfolgreiche Leistungssysteme in der
Industrie. In C. Belz, G. Schuh, S. A. Groos, & S. Reinecke (Eds.), Industrie als Dienstleister
(pp. 14–109). St. Gallen: Thexis.

Bernard, K. N. (1996). Just-in-time as a competitive weapon: The signiﬁcance of functional

integration. Journal of Marketing Management, 12(6), 581–597.

Beutin, N. (2008). Kundenbindung durch Zusatzdienstleistungen (Value-added services). In
(6th ed.,

M. Bruhn & C. Homburg (Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement
pp. 347–367). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Beverland, M. (2001). Contextual inﬂuences and the adoption and practice of relationship selling
in a business-to-business setting: An exploratory study. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales
Management, 21(3), 207.

Beyer, A. F. (1998). They learn, you earn: Teach customers to use products. Marketing News, 32

(11), 15–15.

Biegel, U. R. (1988). Erfolgreiche Neuprodukte durch anwenderorientierte Entwicklungsarbeit.

Der Betrieb, 41, 2319–2322.

Bonnemeier, S., Burianek, F., & Reichwald, R. (2010). Revenue models for integrated customer
solutions: Concept and organizational implementation. Journal of Revenue & Pricing Man-
agement, 9(3), 228–238. doi:10.1057/rpm.2010.7.

Bradford, K. D., Crant, J. M., & Phillips, J. M. (2009). How suppliers affect Traust with their
customers: The role of salesperson job satisfaction and perceived customer importance.
Journal of Marketing Theory & Practice, 17(4), 383–394. doi:10.2753/mtp1069-6679170406.
Bruhn, M. (2007). Kundenorientierung: Bausteine f€ur ein exzellentes Customer Relationship

Management. Mu¨nchen: Deutscher Taschenbuch.

240

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Campbell, K. S., Davis, L., & Skinner, L. (2006). Rapport management during the exploration
phase of the salesperson-customer relationship. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Manage-
ment, 26(4), 359–370.

Cannon, J. P., & Homburg, C. (2001). Buyer-supplier relationships and customer ﬁrm costs.

Journal of Marketing, 65(1), 29–43. doi:10.1509/jmkg.65.1.29.18136.

Carl, W. J. (2008). The role of disclosure in organized word-of-mouth marketing programs.

Journal of Marketing Communications, 14(3), 225–241. doi:10.1080/13527260701833839.

Chow, A., Woodford, K. C., & Showers-Chow, J. (2008). Utilization of needs-based customer
doi:10.1108/

Industrial & Commercial

Training,

320–327.

40(6),

training.
00197850810900084.

Churchill, G. A., & Surprenant, C. (1982). An investigation into the determinants of customer

satisfaction. Journal of Marketing Research, 19(4), 491–504.

Corsten, D., & Kumar, N. (2005). Do suppliers beneﬁt from collaborative relationships with large
retailers? An empirical investigation of efﬁcient consumer response adoption. Journal of
Marketing, 69(3), 80–94.

Cova, B., & Salle, R. (2008). Marketing solutions in accordance with the S-D logic: Co-creating
value with customer network actors. Industrial Marketing Management, 37(3), 270–277.
doi:10.1016/j.indmarman.2007.07.005.

Davies, A., Brady, T., & Hobday, M. (2007). Organizing for solutions: Systems seller vs. systems
integrator. Industrial Marketing Management, 36(2), 183–193. doi:10.1016/j.indmarman.
2006.04.009.

Diller, H. (2008a). Kundenbindung durch Preispolitik. In M. Bruhn & C. Homburg (Eds.),

Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement (6th ed., pp. 397–426). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Diller, H. (2008b). Preispolitik (4th ed.). Stuttgart: Kohlhammer.
Erichsson, S. K. (1993). User Groups im Systemgesch€aft: Ansatzpunkte f€ur das Systemmarketing.

Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Freiling, J. (1995). Die Abh€angigkeit der Zulieferer. Ein strategisches Problem. Wiesbaden:

Dissertation Publication.

Geiger, I., Durand, A., Saab, S., Kleinaltenkamp, M., Baxter, R., & Lee, Y. (2012). The bonding
effects of relationship value and switching costs in industrial buyer-seller relationships: An
investigation into role differences. Industrial Marketing Management, 41(1), 82–93. doi:10.
1016/j.indmarman.2011.11.013.

Gelbrich, K., & Roschk, H. (2011). A meta-analysis of organizational complaint handling and
doi:10.1177/

Service Research,

responses.

Journal

14(1),

24–43.

of

customer
1094670510387914.

Germain, R., Dro¨ge, C., & Daugherty, P. J. (1994). The effect of just-in-time selling on organiza-
tional structure: An empirical investigation. Journal of Marketing Research, 31(4), 471–483.
Green, K., Jr., & Inman, R. A. (2006). Does implementation of a JIT-with-customers strategy
change an organization’s structure? Industrial Management & Data Systems, 106(8),
1077–1094.

Gremler, D. D., & Gwinner, K. P. (2000). Customer-employee rapport in service relationships.

Journal of Service Research, 3(1), 82.

Guenzi, P., & Georges, L. (2010). Interpersonal trust in commercial relationships: Antecedents
and consequences of customer trust in the salesperson. European Journal of Marketing, 44
(1/2), 114–138. doi:10.1108/03090561011008637.

Gu¨nter, B. (1982). Die Referenzanlage als Marketing-Instrument. Zeitschrift

f€ur betriebs-

wirtschaftliche Forschung, 34, 270–276.

Gu¨nter, B. (1996). Kundenanalyse und Kundenzufriedenheit als Grundlage der Customer Integra-
tion. In M. Kleinaltenkamp, S. Fließ, & F. Jacob (Eds.), Customer Integration: Von der
Kundenorientierung zur Kundenintegration (pp. 57–71). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Gwinner, K. P., Gremler, D. D., & Bitner, M. J. (1998). Relational beneﬁts in services industries:

The customer’s perspective. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 26(2), 101–114.

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

241

Heide, J. B., & Wathne, K. H. (2006). Friends, businesspeople, and relationship roles: A concep-

tual framework and a research agenda. Journal of Marketing, 70, 90–103.

Henning-Thurau, T., Gwinner, K. P., & Gremler, D. D. (2002). Understanding relationship
marketing outcomes: An integration of relational beneﬁts and relationship quality. Journal of
Service Research, 4(3), 230.

Hermes, V. (2009). ECR-Partner ernten Kundenpotenziale. Absatzwirtschaft, 52(12), 76–79.
Hermes, V. (2011). Mut mu¨ndet in siegreiche Beziehung. Absatzwirtschaft, 54(4), 74–75.
Hippel, E. V. (1978). Successful industrial products from customer ideas. Journal of Marketing, 42

(1), 39–49.

Hippel, E. V. (1986). Lead users – A source of novel product concepts. Management Science, 32

(7), 791–805.

Homburg, C., & Fu¨rst, A. (2005). How organizational complaint handling drives customer loyalty:
An analysis of the mechanistic and the organic approach. Journal of Marketing, 69, 95–114.
Homburg, C., & Koschate, N. (2005a). Behavioral Pricing-Forschung im U¨ berblick - Teil 1:
f€ur

Grundlagen, Preisinformationsaufnahme und Preisinformationsbeurteilung. Zeitschrift
Betriebswirtschaft, 75(4), 383–423.

Homburg, C., & Koschate, N. (2005b). Behavioral Pricing-Forschung im U¨ berblick - Teil 2:
Preisinformationsspeicherung, weitere Themenfelder und zuku¨nftige Forschungsrichtungen.
Zeitschrift f€ur Betriebswirtschaft, 75(5), 501–524.

Homburg, C., & Krohmer, H. (2009). Marketingmanagement (3rd ed.). Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Homburg, C., Kuester, S., Beutin, N., & Menon, A. (2005). Determinants of customer beneﬁts in
business-to-business markets: A cross-cultural comparison. Journal of International Market-
ing, 13(3), 1–31.

Homburg, C., & Scha¨fer, H. (2006). Die Erschließung von Kundenwertpotenzialen durch Cross-
Selling. In B. Gu¨nter & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert (3rd ed., pp. 157–181). Wiesbaden:
Gabler.

Inman, R. A., Sale, R. S., Green, K. W., & Whitten, D. (2011). Agile manufacturing: Relation to
JIT, operational performance and ﬁrm performance. Journal of Operations Management, 29
(4), 343–355. doi:10.1016/j.jom.2010.06.001.

Jakubzig, D. (2009). Logistik fu¨r Stahlgiganten. Railways(1), 18–21.
Kalwani, M. U., & Narayandas, N. (1995). Long-term manufacturer-supplier relationships: Do

they pay off for supplier ﬁrms? Journal of Marketing, 59(1), 1.

Kamakura, W. A., Ramaswami, S. N., & Srivastava, R. K. (1991). Applying latent trait analysis in
the evaluation of prospects for cross-selling of ﬁnancial services. International Journal of
Research in Marketing, 8(4), 329–349.

Kawasaki, G. (1990). The Macintosh. London: Glenfreld.
Kim, S.-H., Cohen, M. A., & Netessine, S. (2007). Performance contracting in after-sales service

supply chains. Management Science, 53(12), 1843–1858.

Kirchmann, E. M. W. (1994). Innovationskooperationen zwischen Herstellern und Anwendern.

Wiesbaden: Deutscher Universita¨ts-Verlag.

Kleinaltenkamp, M.

(1993).

Auswirkungen im CIM-Bereich. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Standardisierung

und Marktprozeß: Entwicklungen

und

Kleinaltenkamp, M. (1997). Kooperation mit Kunden. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke (Eds.),

Gesch€aftsbeziehungsmanagement. Berlin: Springer.

Kleinaltenkamp, M.

(2008). Kundenbindung durch Kundenintegration.

C. Homburg (Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement
Wiesbaden: Gabler.

In M. Bruhn &
(6th ed., pp. 427–444).

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Dahlke, B. (2006). Der Wert des Kunden als Informant—auf dem Weg zu
einem “konwledge based customer value”. In B. Gu¨nter & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert (3rd
ed., pp. 217–240). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Fließ, S. (2002). Marketingstrategie. In M. Kleinaltenkamp & W. Plinke

(Eds.), Strategisches business-to-business-marketing (pp. 235–282). Berlin: Springer.

Kleinaltenkamp, M., Plo¨tner, O., & Zedler, C. (2004). Industrielles Servicemanagement. In
K. Backhaus & M. Voeth (Eds.), Handbuch Industrieg€utermarketing (pp. 625–648).
Wiesbaden: Gabler.

242

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Staudt, M. (1991). Kooperation zwischen Investitionsgu¨ter-Herstellern
und fu¨hrenden Anwendern (“Lead User”). In J. Hilbert, M. Kleinaltenkamp, J. Nordhause-
(Eds.), Neue Kooperationsformen in der Wirtschaft: Ko¨nnen
Janz, & B. Widmaier
Konkurrenten Partner werden? (pp. 59–70). Opladen: Leske + Budrich.

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Wolters, H. (1997). Die Gestaltung von Systempartnerschaften zwischen
Automobilherstellern und ihren Zulieferern – eine spieltheoretische Analyse. In G. Schreyo¨gg,
& J. Sydow (Eds.), Management von Unternehmensgrenzen, Managementforschung (Vol. 7).
Berlin: de Gruyter.

Kotler, P., Keller, K. L. & Bliemel, F.

(2007). Marketing-Management—strategisches

wertschaffendes Handeln (12 ed.). Munich: Pearson Studium.

Krafcik, J. F. (1988). Triumph of the lean production system. Sloan Management Review, 30(1),

41–52.

Lietke, B. (2009). Efﬁcient consumer response—Eine agency-theoretische Analyse der Probleme

und Lo¨sungsans€atze. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Lilien, G. L., Morrison, P. D., Searls, K., Sonnack, M., & Von Hippel, E. (2002). Performance
assessment of the lead user idea-generation process for new product development. Manage-
ment Science, 48(8), 1042–1059.

Llopis, J., Gasco, J., & Gonzalez, R. (2006). Training customers: An organizational experience.

Industrial & Commercial Training, 38(2/3), 78–85. doi:10.1108/00197850610653144.

Menon, A., Homburg, C., & Beutin, N. (2005). Understanding customer value in business-to-
business relationships. Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing, 12(2), 1–35. doi:10.1300/
J033v12n02(cid:129)01.

Merli, G. (1991). Co-makership: The new supply strategy for manufacturers. Cambridge, MA:

Productivity Press.

Morschett, D. (2006). Firm-speciﬁc inﬂuences on the internalization of after-sales service
activities in foreign markets. Journal of Services Marketing, 20(5), 309–323. doi:10.1108/
08876040610679927.

Palmatier, R. W., Dant, R. P., Grewal, D., & Evans, K. R. (2006a). Factors inﬂuencing the
effectiveness of relationship marketing: A meta-analysis. Journal of Marketing, 70, 136–153.
Palmatier, R. W., Gopalakrishna, S., & Houston, M. B. (2006b). Returns on business-to-business
relationship marketing investments: Strategies for leveraging proﬁts. Marketing Science, 25
(5), 477–493.

Palmatier, R. W., Scheer, L. K., & Steenkamp, J.-B. E. M. (2007). Customer loyalty to whom?
Managing the beneﬁts and risks of salesperson-owned loyalty. Journal of Marketing Research,
44, 185–199.

Piercy, N. F., & Morgan, N. A. (1997). The impact of lean thinking and the lean enterprise on

marketing: Threat or synergy. Journal of Marketing Management, 13(7), 679–693.

Pine, B. J. (1993). Mass customization: New frontier in business competition. Cambridge, MA:

Harvard Business School Press.

Plinke, W., & So¨llner, A. (2006). Preisgestaltung im Produktgescha¨ft. In M. Kleinaltenkamp,
W. Plinke, F. Jacob, & A. So¨llner (Eds.), Markt- und Produktmanagement—Die Instrumente
des Business-to-Business-Marketing (2nd ed., pp. 709–771). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Ploetner, O. (2008). The development of consulting in goods-based companies. Industrial Mar-

keting Management, 37(3), 329–338. doi:10.1016/j.indmarman.2007.08.008.

Polito, T., & Watson, K. (2006). Just-in-time under ﬁre: The ﬁve major constraints upon JIT

practices. Journal of American Academy of Business, Cambridge, 9(1), 8–13.

Price, L. L., & Arnould, E. J. (1999). Commercial friendships: Service provider–client

relationships in context. Journal of Marketing, 63(4), 38–56.

Reinartz, W., Thomas, J. S., & Bascoul, G. (2008). Investigating cross-buying and customer

loyalty. Journal of Interactive Marketing, 22(1), 5–20. doi:10.1002/dir.20103.

Rothenberger, S., Grewal, D., & Iyer, G. R. (2008). Understanding the role of complaint handling
on consumer loyalty in service relationships. Journal of Relationship Marketing, 7(4),
359–376. doi:10.1080/15332660802516029.

7 Instruments of Business Relationship Management

243

Rothschild, K. (1988). The age of inﬂuence. Datamation, 34(24), 18–24.
Saab, S. (2007). Commitment in Gesch€aftsbeziehungen. Konzeptualisierung und Operationa-
(Business-to-Business-Marketing).

das Business-to-Business-Marketing

f€ur

lisierung
Wiesbaden: DUV.

Scha¨fer, H. (2002). Die Erschließung von Kundenpotenzialen durch Cross-Selling. Wiesbaden:

Deutscher Universita¨ts-Verlag.

Seifert, D. (2006). Efﬁcient Consumer Response (4. ed., Hamburger Schriften zur Marketing-

Simon, H., & Fassnacht, M. (2009). Preismanagement: Strategie—Analyse—Entscheidung—

forschung). Mu¨nchen: Hampp

Umsetzung (3rd ed.). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Smith, A. K., & Bolton, R. N. (1998). An experimental investigation of customer reactions to
service failure and recovery encounters. Journal of Service Research, 1(1), 65–81. doi:10.
1177/109467059800100106.

Stauss, B. (2008). Kundenbindung durch Beschwerdemanagement. In M. Bruhn & C. Homburg

(Eds.), Handbuch Kundenbindungsmanagement (6th ed., pp. 369–396). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Steward, M., Walker, B., Hutt, M., & Kumar, A. (2010). The coordination strategies of high-
performing salespeople: internal working relationships that drive success. Journal of the
Academy of Marketing Science, 38(5), 550–566. doi:10.1007/s11747-009-0170-0.

Stock, R. (2006). Interorganizational teams as boundary spanners between supplier and customer

companies. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 34(4), 588–599.

Storbacka, K., Polsa, P., & Sa¨a¨kja¨rvi, M. (2011). Management practices in solution sales—a
multilevel and cross-functional framework. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management,
31(1), 35–54. doi:10.2753/pss0885-3134310103.

Strothmann, K.-H., & Kliche, M. (1989). Innovationsmarketing. Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Strothmann, K.-H., Kuß, A., & Ziegler, R. (1979). Marktorientierte Konstruktions- und

Entwicklungspolitik in der Investitionsg€uterindustrie. Wu¨rzburg.

Swan, J. E., Goodwin, C., Mayo, M. A., & Richardson, L. D. (2001). Customer identities:
Customers as commercial friends, customer coworkers or business acquaintances. Journal of
Personal Selling & Sales Management, 21(1), 29–37.

Thompson, L. (2005). The mind and heart of the negotiator (3rd ed.). Upper Saddle River, NJ:

Pearson Prentice Hall.

Ulaga, W., & Eggert, A. (2006). Value-based differentiation in business relationships: Gaining and
sustaining key supplier status. Journal of Marketing, 70(1), 119–136. doi:10.1509/jmkg.2006.
70.1.119.

Unknown (1986). Die Haltung der Anwender kann offene Standards forcieren. Computerwoche,

13(49,5.12.1986), p. 10.

Unknown (1987). X/Open hofft auf mehr Akzeptanz bei Usern. Computerwoche, 14(13.3.1987),

p. 15.

Unknown. (2008). Lerne aus der Ferne. Absatzwirtschaft, 51(8), 101.
Weiber, R., & Jacob, F. (2000). Kundenbezogene Informationsgewinnung. In M. Kleinaltenkamp
& W. Plinke (Eds.), Technischer Vertrieb—Grundlagen des Business-to-Business Marketing
(2nd ed., pp. 523–612). Berlin: Springer.

Wimmer, F., & Zerr, K. (1995). Service fu¨r Systeme – Service mit System. Absatzwirtschaft, 38

(7), 82–87.

Wolters, H. (1994). Die Efﬁzienz der Beschaffung ist entscheidend fu¨r den Wettbewerb.

Beschaffung Aktuell(4), 22–25.

Wolters, H. (1995). Modul- und Systembeschaffung in der Automobilindustrie. Wiesbaden.
Womack, J. P., Jones, D. T., & Roos, D. (1990). The machine that changed the World: The story of

lean production. New York: HarperPaperbacks.

Zelbst, P. J., Green, J. K. W., Abshire, R. D., & Sower, V. E. (2010). Relationships among market
orientation, JIT, TQM, and agility. Industrial Management & Data Systems, 110(5), 637–658.
doi:10.1108/02635571011044704.

Zo¨rgiebel, W. W. (1983). Technologie in der Wettbewerbsstrategie. Berlin: Erich Schmidt.

Internal Implementation of Business
Relationship Management

8

Ingmar Geiger and Michael Kleinaltenkamp

8.1

Organization of a Business Relationship Management

8.1.1 Fundamentals of a Customer-based Organizational Structure

When the wealth of tasks that are required in business relationship management is
considered, one wonders how they can all be successfully implemented in a
company. An essential cornerstone of the implementation of business relationship
management in a supplier company is to ensure that the organizational prerequisites
are in place. This can occur in very different ways. Ultimately the goal is to have
one central address where all activities having to do with relationships to important
customers come together in one uniform responsibility. This is usually associated
with organizational institutionalization, whereby the departments and persons
involved are generally referred to as key account management or similar.

Variations of key account management have been practiced in Germany since
the early 1970s, particularly in the food industry. Among the ﬁrst companies to
apply this concept were Henkel KGaA and Master Foods (Diller 1989). But the
origin of the concept was actually much earlier. Tosdal (1950) made the suggestion
in the USA to grant individual important customers the status of “national account”,
“(. . .) which buys a large quantity of product” (Tosdal 1950, p. 179). This type of
national account management was practiced in the 1960s by more than
250 companies in the USA, all operating in the business-to-business sector. The
National Account Marketing Association was founded in 1965 in New York. Its
members at the time included General Electric, Xerox, IBM, Uniroyal and 3M.
Although key account management grew out of the business-to-business sector, for
a long time it was much more prevalent in the consumer goods industry (Knetsch
1990; Diller 1988; Thomas 1987). This is due to the fact that the respective

I. Geiger (*) • M. Kleinaltenkamp
School of Business and Economics, Freie Universita¨t Berlin, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: ingmar.geiger@fu-berlin.de; michael.kleinaltenkamp@fu-berlin.de

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5_8

245

246

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

companies were and still are dealing with trading companies as their direct
customers, so there were business-to-business relationships. But in recent years it
has become more and more common that other companies in the business-to-
business sector, meaning those not supplying trading companies, implement some
type of key account management (Homburg et al. 2000).

The essential tasks of such a key account position or department include:

• Gathering and evaluation of information on individual customers
• Conception of strategies to maintain and foster relationships
• Planning and possibly the implementation of measures to maintain and foster
relationships—the measures being those targeted towards customers as well as
those that affect the company’s internal operations

• Controlling of operative measures intended to maintain and foster relationships
• Consultations and negotiations with employees of the respective customer

company.

An example of the type of information that should be compiled on important
customers in this regard can be seen in Table 8.1, a process used by IBM for this
purpose.

Figure 8.1 also shows an example of the summary of a customer strategy as it is
applied by the company Freudenberg Dichtungs- und Schwingungstechnik. The
illustration does not only show the revenue and supplier share goals that the
supplier would like to achieve for his various products (CHG, PTFE, etc.) with

Table 8.1 Important information on key accounts. Source: Based on IBM

Contents

Customer overview

Customer environment/
history

Relationship coverage
Organization charts

Business plan

Opportunity plan
Global account revenue

Brief description

Name, address, number of employees, revenue, proﬁt, ﬁnancial
situation, sector(s), etc.
Market position, competitors, cooperation partners, trends in
direct environment, critical success factors, strategies, etc.
Customer’s respective business units, current and planned
projects, etc.
Solutions implemented by the customer so far, own as well as
those of competitors, respective proportion of relevant total
budget
Relevant procurement budget
Own orders received and lost
Description of buying center
Description of (business and personal) interests of individual
persons
Own evaluation from customer’s point of view
Expectations of cooperation from customer’s point of view
Own visions, strategies and projects
Own contact persons
Information on process to identify and assess individual projects
Information on globally operating key accounts

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

247

t
s
o
c

d
n
a
e
c
n
a
m
r
o
f
r
e
p

h

t
i

w
e
n
g
n
e

i

l

e
s
e
d

i

 

n
o
k
c
a

t
t

A

l

i

a
c
n
h
c
e

t

n
o

i
t
c
u
d
e
r

x
x
x
 
:

G
H
C

 
.

1

d
n
a

e
g
a

t

n
a
v
d
a

l

i

a
c
n
h
c
e

t

h

t
i

w
k
c
a

t
t

A

n
o

i
t

a
r
e
n
e
g
d
n
o
c
e
s
 
E
F
T
P
n
o

 

l

x
x
x
 
:
s
a
e
s
 
e
n
g
n
E

i

 
.

2

S
D
W
R

l

s
a
e
s
 
i

 

b
m
o
K
w
e
n
h

t
i

w
k
c
a

t
t

A

l

x
x
x
 
:
s
a
e
s
 
s
n
a
r
T

 
.

3

 
x
x
x
 

n
o

t
s
o
c
w
o

l

x
x
x
 
:

S
S
V

 
.

4

h

t
i

w
k
c
a

t
t

A

i

e
n
g
n
e

l

i

a
c
n
h
c
e

t

l

e
v
e

l
 

i

h
g
h
h

t
i

w
k
c
a

t
t

A

x
x
x
 
:
s
e
s
o
h
e
k
a
r
B

 

 
.

5

l

x
e
p
m
o
c
 
w
e
n

 

n
o
e
c
n
a
m
r
o
f
r
e
p

s
r
a
c
e
r
u

t

u

f

r
o

f
 

H
B

 
x
x
x
 
g
n

i
l

a
e
s
 
e
g
a
k
c
a
P

 
.

1

x
x
x
 

i

e
n
g
n
e

 

i

e
n
g
n
e

 
x
x
x
 

 

n
o
S
D
W
R

 
.

2

x
x
x

i

s
e
n
g
n
e

 
l

e
s
e
d

i

 

n
o

 

e
r
a
h
s

 
t

 

e
k
r
a
m
%
0
5
G
H
C

 

 

 
.

3

 
l

a
n
o

i
t
i

d
d
a
 
s
e
s
o
h
e
k
a
r
B

 

 
.

4

€

 
.

i

o
M
5

 

.

4
 
s
s
e
n
s
u
b

i

5
6

0
7

 

+

 
s
r
o
t
i
t
e
p
m
o
C
 
n
a
M

i

m
e
h
t
 
k
c
a
t
t
a
 
o
t
 

w
o
h

s
t
e
g
r
a
T
 
c
g
e
a
r
t

t

i

S

 

n

i
 

n
o

i
t
i

s
o
P

8
0
0
2

r
e
d
o
c
n
e

t
c
e

f
f

e

 
l
l

a
H

 
f

o
n
o

i
t

a
z

i
l

a
i
r
t
s
u
d
n

i

e
h

t

d
n
a

t

n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

e
h

t

i

s
e
n
g
n
e

l

i

e
s
e
d
r
o

f
 

G
H
C

t
s
o
c
w
o

l
 
f

o

l

s
a
e
s
 
E
F
T
P
h
t
i

w
p
u
p
m
a
r
e
h
t

g
n
i
r
u
d

i

e
c
v
r
e
s
s
s
a
c
 
n
i
 
t
s
e
B

l

t

n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d

l

e
h

t

e
z

i
l

a
n
F

i

i

e
n
g
n
e

 
x
x
x

r
o

f

e
g
n
a

l
f
 

S
S
V
s
s
e
n
d
r
a
h

 

h
g
h

i

l

p
o
e
v
e
D

e
z

i
l

a
n
F

i

 
.

 
.

 
.

 
.

1

2

3

4

 

 
y
r
a
s
s
e
c
e
N

 

o

t
 
s
n
o

i
t
c
a

e
h

t
 

i

e
v
e
h
c
a

s
e
g
r
a

t

l

–
 
s
a
e
s
 
s
n
a
r
T
–

 

L
S
H
D
D
–
S
S
V
n
o

 

 

 

e
r
a
h
s
 
t

e
k
r
a
m
h
g
h

 

i

 
y
r
e
v
 
r
u
o

 

e
v
a
s
 

o

t
 
s
e

i
t
i
v
i
t
c
a
n
o

 

i
t
c
u
d
e
r
 
t
s
o
C

 
.

1

i

e
n
g
n
e

 
l

e
s
e
d

i

i

e
n
g
n
e

i

x
x
x
 
e
n
g
n
e
 
x
x
x
 
e
h
t
 
f
o
 
e
s
a
h
p
 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
d
 
e
h
t
 
g
n
i
r
u
d
 
x
x
x
 
n
i
r
e
e
n
g
n
e

i

l

 
t

 
x
x
x
 

i

n
o
 
s
s
e
n
s
u
B
S
D
W
R

 

 
x
x
x
 

i

n
o
 
s
s
e
n
s
u
b
G
H
C

 

 
r
e

 
r
e

t

t

n
e

n
e

 

 

o

o

t
 
s
n
o

t
 
s
n
o

i
t

i
t

a
c
i
f
i

a
c
i
f
i

c
e
p
s
 
x
x
x
 
r
o

c
e
p
s
 
x
x
x
 
r
o

f
 

f
 

n
o

n
o

i
t

i
t

l

l

u
o
s
 
l

u
o
s
 
l

i

i

a
c
n
h
c
e
T

a
c
n
h
c
e
T

i

n
e
d
s
e
R

 
.

 
.

 
.

2

3

4

l

H
R
B
 
s
a
e
s
 
e
n
g
n
E

i

 
y
r
a
s
s
e
c
e
N

 
t

a
 
s
r
o

t
c
a

f

 
s
s
e
c
c
u
s

 

i

h
c
h
w

 
x
x
x

 

l

 

e
b
d
u
o
h
s

 

d
e
v
o
r
p
m

i

 

S
D
F

 
t

a

i

s
e
n
g
n
e

 
l

e
s
e
d

i

 

n
o

 

e
r
a
h
s

 

 
t
e
k
r
a
m
%
 
0
2
 
G
H
C

 
.
1

 

l

0
7
 
s
a
e
s
 

i

e
n
g
n
e
E
F
T
P

 

 
.

2

e
r
a
h
s
 
t

e
k
r
a
m
%

 

s
t
e
g
r
a
T
 
c
g
e
a
r
t

t

i

S

 

n

i
 

n
o

i
t
i

s
o
P

4
0
0
2

 

n
o

i
t
i

s
o
P

y
a
d
o
t

i

 
s
e
s
s
e
n
s
u
b
 
r
e
d
o
c
n
E

 
.

4

 

n
o

 

e
r
a
h
s
 
t

e
k
r
a
m
%
0
6

 

 

i

s
e
n
g
n
e

 
x
x
x
 

d
n
a

 
x
x
x

 
l

a
n
o

i
t
i

d
d
a
 
s
e
s
o
h
e
k
a
r
B

 

 
.

3

i

€
 
.
o
m
 
1
.
2

5
5

9
4

€

 
.

 
s
e
a
S

l

i

o
M

 

n

i

9
5

1
5

 
t

e
k
r
a
M

e
r
a
h
S

%
n

 

i

Fig. 8.1 Overview of a sample customer strategy. Source: Based on Freudenberg Dichtungs- und
Schwingungstechnik

248

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

the respective customer, it also points out the activities that the various divisions
have to perform or implement within the company to achieve these goals.

Because of the vastly different market and intra-organizational circumstances
and challenges, very different manifestations of key account management, the
related tasks and the constellation of the respective positions and departments can
be found in actual practice (Homburg et al. 2000; Zupancic 2008). They range from
sales tasks related to single customers to positions or departments with speciﬁc
responsibilities and even to divisions segmented by customer, with their own
procurement, R&D, production, etc. In small and medium-sized companies, it is
often sales managers or members of corporate management who take care of key
customers. The following section will explain the different constellations of key
account management, with the corresponding conditions for application as well as
advantages and disadvantages. There will be differentiation between fundamental
and special organizational options (Rieker 1995).

• The term fundamental organizational options designates the signiﬁcance and
propagation of business relationship management as a leadership concept within
the organization. It is not about assigning a certain position or department to a
place in the organizational structure but about spreading relationship manage-
ment throughout workﬂow management.

• Special organizational options, on the other hand, deal with the speciﬁc
constellation and outﬁtting of positions or department bearing responsibility
for relationship management.

8.1.2 Fundamental Alternatives of a Customer-based

Organizational Structure

A company has four fundamental alternatives for a customer-based organization
(Shapiro and Moriarty 1984):

• Foregoing introduction despite the concept being sensible
• Relationship management as “part-time program”
• Partial introduction in one area of the company and
•

Introduction throughout the company.

8.1.2.1 Foregoing Introduction of Institutionalized Relationship

Management

After learning about all the reasons for and challenges of business relationship
management, it may come as a surprise that a company could consider not
implementing a customer-based organization. But the consideration should at
least be part of the decision making process. Although the company may demon-
strate the need for such activities, there may be good reasons for not doing so. This
can be the case especially when the required human or ﬁnancial resources are not
and cannot be made available. In cases in which the position towards the customer
cannot be improved and there may actually be the risk of individual customers

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

249

attempting to take advantage of the increased attention to their needs to achieve
price concessions (Shapiro and Moriarty 1984), a supplier can or should consider
refraining from implementation despite the general necessity thereof.

8.1.2.2 Relationship Management as an “Part-time Program”
The second possibility, “part-time” relationship management means that taking
care of single, important customers poses an additional “task” for an employee. The
decision to implement
is usually
characterized by the size of the company, the available human resources, the
relationship complexity and the related need for coordination, the number of
customers relevant for relationship management and their geographic locations
(Sidow 1993; Shapiro and Moriarty 1984; Pegram 1972).

relationship management

this

type of

Such a part-time program is especially popular amongst smaller and medium-
sized companies, because no new jobs need be created. Maintaining and fostering
the relationships with customers is taken care of by sales and marketing managers
or by the owner or members of corporate management. They look after important
customers in addition to performing their regular tasks.

Relationship management as a part-time task is perceived to have several
advantages and disadvantages, which must be balanced against one another for
each individual case:

• Such a solution surely makes sense when the “part-time relationship managers”
have a relatively high position in the corporate hierarchy. They can then ensure
that tasks relevant to the relationship are deﬁnitely performed. Especially when a
company has only a few key customers, this is a way to coordinate goals and
strategies related to single customers and to ensure that the general corporate
goals and strategies are met.

• The disadvantage of this alternative is the inherent costs. Such a part-time
program can only allegedly be considered an economic type of organization of
business relationship management. Since the employee taking care of the key
customers is usually in a relatively high—and thus well-paying—position within
the corporation and must deal with the speciﬁc tasks and problems having to do
with relationship management in addition to his many other important tasks, the
activities related to customer care are not always given the proper diligence. And
when the key customers are geographically far removed from where the part-
time relationship manager is located, there is also the risk that direct customer
contact will occur only rarely. It can also happen that an executive is not willing
to deal with issues that seem minor to him but are important to the customer,
e.g. missing instruction manuals.

So “part-time relationship management” is fundamentally an explicit way of
taking care of important customers. However, its use can lead to the objectives of
business relationship management being achieved only partially or not at all. This
becomes more and more problematic as more key customers are cared for in this
way. If the “part-time relationship manager” is not a manager, there is a substantial

250

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

risk that, because of his lack of power within the organization, he may not be able to
assert himself. So “part-time relationship management” should be considered only
when no other speciﬁc resources can be made available and this approach seems to
promise greater success that completely foregoing organizational implementation
of business relationship management.

8.1.2.3 Relationship Management as a Full-time Job
As opposed to the variations described above, business relationship management
can also be implemented “full-time,” meaning as positions or departments created
especially for this purpose—such as key account management—and it can be
implemented partially or throughout the company.

• Partial employment of relationship management means that (only) certain
areas of the company implement relationship management. The responsibility
for implementation as well as integration in the management structure lies with
the respective areas.

• Corporate-wide relationship management, on the other hand, means that the
concept is implemented throughout the company and business relationship
management becomes a comprehensive leadership strategy.

In both of these cases, key account management can be located just about

anywhere within a company. There are three possible variations:

1. Integration across an entire company level
2. Integration in divisions or corporate divisions
3. Integration in units within corporate divisions, which may exist as e.g. strategic

business units (SBUs) or single proﬁt centers.

When multiple key account positions or departments exist in parallel in different
divisions of a company, problems can occur when the respective institutions are
responsible for one and the same customer. It is also important to remember that, for
the relevant positions or departments to be able to act in the best interest of the
respective business relationship partner, they have to be able to drastically or at
least signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the departments responsible for creating the services to
be provided to the key customers. To be able to sensibly implement relationship
management in regard to an important customer at this level, the SBU should—
ideally—have its own R&D, production, sales, etc. (Churchill et al. 1985b; Shapiro
and Moriarty 1984).

If a key customer makes procurements beyond the SBU, additional internal
coordination is generally required. So it makes sense to establish business relation-
ship management at the division level, particularly when the division includes
centralized areas such as R&D, production or sales. Another beneﬁt of
incorporating the concept into a sales department centralized for the division is
that when relationship management is introduced for the ﬁrst time, it can be seen as
a continuation of existing activities (Shapiro and Moriarty 1984). Such an

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

251

organizational connection also contributes to all key customers within the division
being treated more or less equally, granting the supplier a consistent image for
others. Important customers can no longer be considered a part of the SBUs,
the “SBU egotism” when meeting demands beyond the SBU is reduced and the
potential to design system offers increases. The advantage of dissolving the
division—and at the same time a disadvantage—is the greater range of tasks.
After all, key account management has to maintain an overview of all relevant
services in the division, which increases complexity within the supplier’s system.
The same applies to the fourth possibility, placing relationship management at
the corporate level. Here, too, the extent should be determined to which tasks that
affect business relationships should occur in or be coordinated amongst multiple
divisions. The potential to create system solutions that affect multiple divisions
would be an aspect that makes uniform relationship management at the corporate
level favorable. The greater internal and external leverage that can be expected
leads to signiﬁcant beneﬁts of a solution at the corporate level. An added beneﬁt is
that behavior geared toward the customer is typically promoted throughout the
company in regard to considering the needs of key customers, because the product
orientation common to SBUs and divisions is attenuated (Shapiro and Moriarty
1984). The disadvantage of this alternative is that it is highly complex.

The advantages and disadvantages stated here occur particularly when a com-
pany has only one important customer. The more key accounts there are, the less
likely it is that customer-oriented behavior is actually practiced with this variation;
it is difﬁcult to explicitly focus on a large number of important customers.

So in summary it can be said that deciding where to place customer-based
organizational units requires a compromise. Each of the four alternatives described
has advantages and disadvantages that, depending on the market constellation and
circumstances within the company, are more or less relevant and have to be taken
into consideration when assessing the speciﬁc organizational options.

8.1.3 Assigning Key Account Management to a Position

in the Organizational Structure

8.1.3.1 Fundamental Options for Assigning Key Account Management

to a Position in the Organizational Structure

The various organizational options are intended to ﬁnd the best place for and
constellation of key account management within the organizational structure of
the supplier company. The level of the overall organization or the area in which the
positions or departments should be placed must be decided, and the authority to
make decisions and issue directives must be speciﬁed. The degree of authority to
make decisions and issue directives has a major impact on what key account
management can do within the respective company for important customers.
Decision making model may be of help to this end (Wengler 2006).

There are different ways to create a position: a key account management position
or department can be placed with a staff, in the line or in a matrix organization. The

252

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

abundance of the organizational forms that exist today can be systematized by the
number of dimensions on which the structure is based. Following this concept,
one-dimensional and multi-dimensional organizational forms can be differentiated:

• One-dimensional organizational forms are structured applying only a single

criterion at one level of the hierarchy.

• With multi-dimensional organizational forms, at least two structuring criteria

are applied together.

And, in turn, both organizational possibilities can take on different variations.
The two most important one-dimensional organizational forms of key account
management are to integrate it in the line organization or in a line-and-staff
organization. The most common multi-dimensional structure is the matrix
organization.

Figure 8.2 shows the six different ways in which key account management can
be integrated into a corporate organization. The illustration is not intended to
represent a real organizational form; it serves only as an example. In the illustration,
key account management is shown as being possible at all levels of the organiza-
tion, which could never be the case in reality. It could also never be integrated as a
staff function and a line function at the same time. The illustration shows a
company that, below the executive level, consists of (product-based) divisions at
the top, then independent functional areas at the second level and geographic
regions at the third level. This facilitates discussion of the effects of these three
structural criteria, which are often related in practice, on key account management.
Neither other staff unit nor functional area is considered, and activities are not
differentiated by domestic or international. Interconnections between the areas are
not considered. Neither are temporary organizational forms such as project
organizations, task groups, management groups or general quality circles. Other
cross-division functions such as controlling, quality management and environmen-
tal management are also not included.

8.1.3.2 Key Account Management as a Staff Function
Staff units support line entities, from which the staff positions derive their tasks or
which assign the tasks to the staff. They generally prepare decisions but do not have
the authority to make decisions themselves. When key account management is a
staff unit, it is assigned to a managing position, e.g. corporate or sales management.
The tasks of such a staff unit are essentially limited to information gathering and
planning activities. Coordination measures that require managerial authority must
be directed by a higher-ranking position. In such a case key account management is
restricted to providing conceptual and analytical preparatory work and to possibly
monitoring implementation.

In actual practice it can happen that key account management is not able to assert
itself with the required business relationship management measures when dealing
with supervisors and other departments and areas. This can in turn lead to internal
conﬂict and subsequently to frustration on the part of the person attempting to

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

253

Manage
ment 
board 
division 

A

Manage
ment 
board 
division 

B

Manage
ment 
board 
division 

C

Management 

board 
division 

Key accounts

1

Staff division
Key accounts

2A

Division 

A

Division 

A

Division 

A

Staff division
Key accounts

2B

Procurement 
management

R&D 

management

Production 
management

Sales 

management

Key 

account 
division 

Key account 
management 

divisions

Sales region 

A

Sales region 

B

Sales region 

C

Staff division
Key accounts

2C

Staff division
Key accounts

2D

Key 

accounts 

sales

Sales agent 

A

Sales agent 

B

Sales agent 

C

Key 

account 
manager

3

4

5

6

Fig. 8.2 Potential
department

integration alternatives for a “key account management” position or

execute the tasks—and on the part of the customer as well. It can be concluded that
key account management is not well suited to implementing the tasks related to
relationship management (Sidow 1993; Wolter 1985).

There are, however, variations in which key account management as staff could
be conceivable. Assignment to a higher position in the hierarchy may make sense,
such as variations 2A to 2C in Fig. 8.2, under the condition that the respective
position supports key account management unconditionally. If key account man-
agement is assigned to an executive who is willing to implement all measures in
compliance with business relationship management, key account management
itself is not as dependent on having its own position of power. However, this
variation is conceivable when there is only one or very few important customers.

254

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Appointing a staff unit as key account management under the circumstances
described above can also—depending on the size and complexity of
the
corporation—occur under a division manager or, when the sales and marketing
manager has a strong position, under his leadership.

A key account management staff unit can only be successful when the next-
higher line position has the authority within the corporation and the division to
support
the business relationship management orientation across all relevant
departments and is also willing to do so.

The same applies in regard to externally geared key account management tasks.
When key account management has to deal with many aspects that require coordi-
nation with the customer, it is especially important that its authority is “visible”
externally. If a key account management staff cannot assert itself internally and
cannot e.g. decide on price advantages to be granted to customers, it loses credibil-
ity in the eyes of important customers. Furthermore, subordination of the key
account management staff to the division level or lower would make sense only
when the key account receives services exclusively from this division. Even
assigning the key account to the division for which it is most important can be
seen as problematic. On the one hand, this could lead to a conﬂict of interest for the
key account management since it is assigned to only one division; and on the other
hand it can become more difﬁcult to exert inﬂuence on other divisions. Since key
account management is intended to give the supplier organization a coherent
appearance, it would make sense to relegate it to the division level only when
there are absolutely no market interdependencies. And since high ﬂuctuation in
staff might happen, the potential to establish long-term (personal) relationships is
limited.

So key account management as a staff unit generally exhibits relative distinct
differentiation, whereby the focus of specialization is on analysis, planning and
monitoring tasks, while the implementation is greatly dependent on the supervisor
(Schreyo¨gg 2003). This can make it more difﬁcult for key account management to
be integrated in the corporation, and the key account management cannot achieve
integration alone in these variations. The disadvantages of key account manage-
ment being organized as a staff unit lead to the conclusion that this organizational
form is advisable only in exceptional cases. This could be the case when the staff
unit is established temporarily in preparation for later implementation as a line
function.

8.1.3.3 Key Account Management as a Line Function
Line units are where execution takes place. They follow the principle of task
placement and are characterized by clear seniority and subordination. So in such
a case key account management is a true line entity between its own supervisor and
the subsequent departments—to the extent that there are such departments. In this
regard key account management can be the highest or just as well the last link in the
chain.

Such an organizational unit should fundamentally be placed at the level of the
company at which control can best be exercised over the tasks required for business

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

255

relationship management over the long term. The larger the unit is, the more
resources there are available for the activities—and the greater are the internal
coordination requirements and the more difﬁcult it is to promote (single) customer-
oriented behavior on the part of all employees.

Management Board Division “Key Accounts”
The highest place in the hierarchy where key account management can be
integrated is variation 1 in Fig. 8.2. Establishing “key accounts” as a management
board division can be beneﬁcial particularly in the following cases:

• Small or medium-sized companies with only very few key customers who are so
important that such priority treatment is expedient. Such “key account manage-
ment at the highest level” would oblige the important customers’ need for high-
ranking contacts. The challenge, however, is that the persons involved are
willing and capable to meet all of the partial requirements related to business
relationship management. This includes e.g. initiating, maintaining and fostering
internal and external contacts as well as the willingness to personally deal with
complaints from key accounts. So this type of key account management requires
that the position and the “self-image” of a board member or executive of a
company can be harmonized with the tasks of a key account manager.

• A second possibility, which is much easier to implement, is that an appropriate
board or corporate management department act as the highest authority of an
executive committee or of a clearing house for all of the company’s key account
management units. In such a case the role of the management board division
“key account management” would be limited to coordination of the various key
account management positions in the divisions and regions as well as to inter-
vention in individual cases, e.g. when consultation of a higher order is required.
Such a variation is beneﬁcial e.g. when there is a large number of key accounts
purchasing various services from the different divisions. The advantage would
be that the highest level has an overview of the key accounts and coordination of
various functions can occur at that level. This ensures that the required business
relationship management measures, which may be different for important
customers, can be reconciled with the company’s resources. Coordinating the
corporate strategy with the strategies followed for single important customers
can be more easily effected in this case as well.

Both applications of variation 1 can be beneﬁcial, taking into consideration the
stated conditions when relationship management is assigned a high enough priority.
Such a position can also be advantageous in regard to communication with
customers, when the person occupying the position can be called in e.g. when a
high-ranking representative is needed to deal with the key account. So the function
of a “key account management” board member is comparable to that of a “spon-
sor”, who (personally) intervenes only in exceptional cases but who maintains an
overview and control of the entire situation (Shapiro and Moriarty 1982).

256

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Key Account Division
Another variation of organization integration of key account management is to
assign it to a division or strategic business unit responsible for caring for all
important customers. This means that such a unit performs not only sales and
marketing functions but also has its own manufacturing, R&D, procurement and
other functions (Shapiro and Moriarty 1984). This type of key account management
is promising particularly when

1. Learning curve effects in production play a subordinate role, so establishment of
own production has no negative effects on the unit costs of important customers
than other
customers, meaning that synergies are negligible or services have to be created
individually

2. Important customers purchase completely different

services

3. Key customers expect a completely different scope of services, making it

possible to clearly differentiate when the service is created

4. Coordination between R&D, production and sales is essential to achieving the
objectives of business relationship management, such that, without the direct
inﬂuence on these departments and without their knowledge of the signiﬁcance
of the customers, successful implementation of business relationship manage-
ment is endangered and/or

5. Key customers provide so many resources that a separate division or own SBU is

justiﬁed.

If, on the other hand, there are no market interdependencies between the
divisions, key account management can basically be assigned to a single division.
There are two different possibilities, shown as variations 4 and 5 in Fig. 8.2.

Division Key Account Management
Variation 4 represents stand-alone division key account management. In this
variation the sales manager, as well as the management levels of the other func-
tional areas are at the same level in the hierarchy as key account management. So,
important customer and those that are less important are taken care of within the
division, but in different and very separate ways. The advantages and disadvantages
of this organizational variation are similar to those of a separate division for key
accounts.

Particular relevance is assigned to the process for identifying and assessing the
attractiveness of important customers (Chap. 4). The question as to whether the
marketing department or the sales department—if they exist as two distinct
departments—should be responsible for selection of the key accounts should be
decided as a factor of the signiﬁcance of the marketing department and of which
department will later be responsible for key accounts. If, for instance, the marketing
department is a staff function that deals primarily with marketing services such as
market research and advertising, and the sales department is later to take responsi-
bility, marketing should surely be consulted but the decision should ultimately be
made by sales. If, on the other hand, marketing is considered an integration function

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

257

geared towards market-oriented corporate management, the strategic signiﬁcance
of key accounts would mean that it makes sense for marketing to decide on
identifying them. If sales is to be responsible for later customer care, the department
should deﬁnitely be heavily involved to quickly anticipate any resistance.

Criteria and their assessment should not only come from these two areas though.
It has already been pointed out that relationship management requires signiﬁcant
input and cooperation from all areas of the company. This is why it is important that
as many areas as possible be involved in identifying potential key accounts. For
example, the customer’s technological leadership and willingness to cooperate on
R&D may be of particular relevance to the R&D department, while accounting may
be more interested in a customer’s creditworthiness and cash ﬂow and procurement
sees development of joint recycling strategies as an essential aspect. Consulting all
of the departments and areas may make the identiﬁcation process more drawn out
and complex, but it promotes a different type of identiﬁcation process that, from the
point of view of key account management, is of particular importance: identiﬁca-
tion with the key customer. A department actively involved in selecting such a key
customer will get to know the customer’s company better and will thus be in a better
position to recognize its signiﬁcance and to act in a customer-oriented manner.

When variation 4 is implemented, a conﬂict can occur when customers are
selected who should later receive special care as key accounts. If sales management
is consulted to identify important customers, it is safe to assume that sales will
(later) be interested in “normal customers” and that not all interesting and possibly
proﬁtable customers will be handed over to key account management. So a “two-
class society” could evolve within the division, whereby one “class” is responsible
for the key customers and the other for the other customers. This can also impact the
relationship to the other areas within the division. If the structure shown in Fig. 8.2
is applied, the functions such as R&D, production, etc. may be subjected to—
sometimes contradictory—demands of sales management and of key account
management. They might both attempt to make their fulﬁllment a priority in regard
to the needs of their customers. With this variation, key account management’s
opportunities to contribute to initiation and constellation of customer beneﬁts could
be marked by a permanent conﬂict with the sales department or manager, who
becomes an internal competitor to key account management with its own claims,
wishes and demands. This could be particularly problematic when division key
account management does not have the same access to certain resources. If, for
example, customer service is positioned under the leadership of sales management,
this area—essential to after-sales marketing with respect to the key account—can
cause difﬁculties.

The beneﬁts of this variation can surely be attributed to the relatively strong
position of power that key account management has as well as to the potential to
concentrate on the key customers within the division. And the relatively high
position in the hierarchy facilitates access to the required assets. However, when
variation 4 is seen as a whole, the problems and potential conﬂicts outweigh the
possible positive effects. This alternative can fail particularly as a result of resource
interdependencies, internal animosities and demarcation difﬁculties.

258

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Sales Area “Key Accounts”
Although the internal position of power of key account management is lower in
variation 5, it appears more likely that, with all other conditions being equal, this
variation is better able to implement business relationship management overall. The
problematic conﬂict between general sales organization and key account manage-
ment is mostly avoided. The position of sales management is stronger in variation
5 than in variation 4, because it has responsibility for all customers. Due to the
respective customers’ signiﬁcance to the company’s success and thus to the success
of sales, and due to sales management’s position of power, it seems plausible that
key account management would receive pronounced support from the higher-
ranking position. The uniform appearance thus facilitated strengthens the position
over other functional areas more so than does variation 4. So the chances of
successful implementation of business relationship management can be considered
to be good with this variation. However, variation 5 is highly dependent on sales
management’s position of power.

Key Account Management in the Sales Area
The last possibility is to assign key account management to the same level of the
hierarchy as a (regional) sales representative. So it is not until the lowest level of the
hierarchy that there is a distinction between key customers and other customers in
regard to customer care.

Placing key account management here is surely the simplest variation from the
implementation point of view, because no fundamental restructuring is needed. But
this beneﬁt is also the greatest disadvantage: key account management at this level
is marked by little hierarchical power, restricted access to higher levels and all other
functions, and poor visibility. It is very difﬁcult for this type of key account
management to assert itself internally. And external visibility is low, because key
account management at this level of the hierarchy is perceived by the key customers
as having a relatively low status. Because it is assigned to a sales region, the power
of the person responsible for key account management is limited as well. So this
type of organization can be successful only when the following requirements are
fulﬁlled (Shapiro and Moriarty 1984):

1. The company has a large quantity of locally important customers and thus a
great need for key account management positions to care for single customers.
The advantage of variation 6 is that it is easy to implement.

2. Key account management tasks are clearly deﬁned. Only limited ﬂexibility is

needed to perform the tasks.

3. There are no market interdependencies between the sales regions in regard to

key accounts.

4. There is only minimal need for conﬂict resolution mechanisms, substantiated

particularly by points 2 and 3.

5. The sales department’s culture of cooperation, meaning the high value it places

on working together, is pronounced.

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

259

6. Sales possesses mature and proven management systems, such as information

and complaint management systems.

7. Support needed from other areas is primarily of a local nature, e.g. service

personnel or administration.

If, however, the tasks resulting from the demands placed on relationship man-
agement are very complex and hard to plan, or if the customers are too important, it
does not make sense to assign their care to this level.

Key Account Management in the Matrix Organization
Finally, the advantages and disadvantages of integrating key account management
in a multi-dimensional organization will be discussed. The most notable form of
such an organizational constellation is the matrix organization, in which one
position is placed under two other, higher-ranking organizational units having
equal rights. When key account management is organized as a matrix, one of
these two dimensions is determined by the key customer. The second dimension
is usually formed by a function-related or object-related organizational unit. The
beneﬁt of this organizational form is the dual view of product or function point of
view and the customer’s point of view. So the risk of a dominant perspective
addressed with line organization is eliminated. And the greatest problem with
staff organization, the discrepancy between competence and responsibility, is
much less prevalent. If, however, key account management cannot assert itself
against the second tier of management and is seen only as a customer-based
coordination point, it cannot be considered superior to the staff function (Schreyo¨gg
2003). Another potential beneﬁt can be the short and direct communication routes.
Suggested improvements or ideas for new products that key account management
receives from customers can quickly be conveyed to product management. How-
ever, because the two dimensions have equal rights, substantial effort is required for
communication. There are many interfaces between key account management and
product and function management—interfaces characterized by the fact that the
competencies and responsibilities of the two management levels overlap one
another. So the goal of the two performance levels should be to utilize their
competencies and responsibilities to reach joint decisions. Since there is no hierar-
chical differentiation between the two dimensions, and product or function man-
agement has the same rights as key account management, this would require team
work between the dimension managers. In practical applications, however, power
struggles often ensue, lasting until one level proves itself dominant over the other.
So key account management can be considered beneﬁcial in a matrix organiza-

tion, only when the conﬂicts between the two levels are minimal.

260

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

8.1.4 Composition of the Positions and Departments Responsible

for Key Account Management

As the previous sections have demonstrated, key account management can be put
into practice at different levels of a company, assigned to different supervisors and
implemented in different areas of the company. But to determine the exact location,
a supplier company should strategically consider the result it wishes to achieve by
implementing key account management. In addition to the actual integration of key
account management in the supplier organization, the exact composition of the
positions and departments can impact how business relationship management is
actually implemented when dealing with important customers. Designing such a
position includes deﬁning

•
•
•

Its responsibility
Its authority and
Its obligations.

These features of the position’s compositions must be carefully examined as to
how they support achieving strategic objectives, with the intention of avoiding the
common problem of discrepancy between responsibility and hierarchical position
and thus the authority to assert certain goals (Gaitanides et al. 1991).

In this context responsibility designates the scope of duties that key account
management is supposed to perform. Such duties can be differentiated between
(Gaitanides et al. 1991)

• Responsibility for action
• Responsibility for results and
• Managerial responsibility.

Key account management can meet its responsibilities only when it is in a
position to grant internal and external consent, to make concessions and to organize
negotiations and courses of action. This is also referred to as internal competence
and external competence, whereby internal competence means internal decision
making and managerial authority, and external competence the decision making
discretion when dealing with customers (Gaitanides et al. 1991).

These include key account management’s rights to negotiate, reach agreements,
issue instructions, participate and supervise—all of which must be clearly speciﬁed.
For clariﬁcation and simpliﬁcation purposes, the term “managerial authority” will
be used to designate internal competences and the term “decision making authority”
to designate external competences.

The tasks, responsibility and competence of key account management should
follow a matching principle, meaning they should correlate with one another. If this
is not the case, it could lead to customers perceiving key account management as
“bothersome”, because it is not in a position to make commitments and implement
them (Gaitanides et al. 1991). If key account management does not have sufﬁcient

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

261

decision making authority, it cannot act as a relevant dialog partner for the customer
and promise him customer beneﬁts. Too little managerial authority can make it
difﬁcult to achieve the goals of business relationship management, because the
relevant areas of the company do not feel obligated to comply with the
speciﬁcations of key account management.

If key account management’s position is such that it can wield power, it can
“force” implementation of the goals of business relationship management. But if
the internal departments have the same or more power, or if there are no direct
power relationships, key account management can only try to motivate the
departments to participate in integrated creation of customer beneﬁts. Approaches
can be found ﬁrst of all by inﬂuencing the participants’ intrinsic motivation, such
that creating customer beneﬁts becomes an internal obligation to them. Examples of
this are

• Cooperation in designing and setting goals
• Working together to deﬁne key customers
• Becoming aware of the customer’s problems by visiting his plant or
•

Incorporation in the selling center.

Additional possibilities can be found by inﬂuencing extrinsic motivation of the

participants, e.g. by

• Granting bonuses based on customer satisfaction to sales and service employees
• Granting bonuses for meeting deadlines and quality requirements of key

accounts in the production area or

• Approving research budget by the market success of innovations.

The third task is to deﬁne the duties of key account management that have to be
performed in the constellation of such a position or department. The main duties are
to realize each customer’s commitment potential and the resulting tasks. Key
account management as “supporter of relationship management based on individual
customers” deals with the relationship with an important customer. The extent and
focus of the tasks is greatly dependent on the complexity of the relationship to be
considered between the supplier and the purchaser. It is inﬂuenced primarily by the
complexity of the environment relevant to both parties, by the coordination
problems resulting from the vast number of connections between the companies,
and by the consequent need for information and communication.

Environmental complexity is based on exogenous variables such as the unpre-
dictability and uncertainty of the environment or environmental dynamics. The
focus of consideration though is not mastering the complexity of the environment
but mastering the complexity of the relationship between the supplying companies
and the key customer.

The complexity of the relationship is also impacted by the complexity of the
company relevant to the relationship, the complexity of the key customers relevant

262

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

to the relationship and the complexity of the offering (Shapiro and Moriarty 1980;
also Ko¨hler 1984; Weitz and Anderson 1981; Zeithaml et al. 1988).

• The complexity of offering can depend on many different aspects. These can
include the type of offering (raw material, parts, components, systems, etc.),
their degree of standardization and customization, the proportion of the service
component, the degree to which the customer is included in creation of the
service, potential system lock-in, quality requirements and many other aspects
(Shapiro and Moriarty 1980). The complexity of the offering can have an impact
on the company’s internal coordination requirements as well as on customer-
related coordination requirements, depending on whether actual service creation
or inclusion of the customer is the focus of service deﬁnition and justiﬁcation.
• The complexity of the supplier can be based on size, organizational form,
number of levels in the corporate hierarchy, interdependencies and differentia-
tion between the departments, corporate culture, degree of resource egotism, size
and geographic distance of corporate units, regional distribution (regional/
national/international) of the production facilities and sales ofﬁces relevant for
the customer, etc. The greater the supplier complexity relevant for the relation-
ship, the more difﬁcult it is to internally coordinate the various tasks of business
relationship management.
Indicators of complexity of the customer can be afﬁliation with certain
branches, customer’s regional propagation (regional/national/international) (for
an example, refer to Zupancic and Tomczak 2004), degree of centralization of
procurement, etc. The greater the customer complexity relevant for the rela-
tionship, the more difﬁcult it is to coordinate business relationship management
tasks geared towards the speciﬁc customer.

•

All of these criteria can affect the complexity of the relationship between the
supplier and the key customer, whereby it can be assumed that the overall task
becomes more extensive as the relationship increases in complexity. The range of
tasks becomes greater as the number of exchange relationships between different
departments or business units increases, on the part of both the supplier and the
purchaser, and as the services exchanged increase and become more heterogeneous.
The more functional areas and hierarchical levels in the corporation are affected
by the relationship with the key customer, the greater is the need to implement
business relationship management more extensively within the corporation and to
have the support of top management to be able to be successful (Guesalaga 2007). If
it is implemented in only part of the company and/or only to a certain level in the
corporate hierarchy but other areas and levels are also relevant for the customer,
“control” of the various activities is limited.

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

263

8.2

Key Account Manager Requirements

In addition to having an organizational structure suited to key account management
and a corresponding constellation of the position of the key account manager, the
right person must be selected to ﬁll this essential role (Mu¨ller and Ivens 2011).
Much more is generally expected of a key account manager than of a regular sales
employee (Guenzi et al. 2007). Key accounts are a company’s most important
customers and have to be treated and cared for properly by the supplier. For such
customers, the most important contact should be the respective key account man-
ager (Guenzi et al. 2007). The key account manager takes care of essential commu-
nication with the customer company and is the primary contact person for all
technical and business questions. He is responsible not only for ensuring that the
current business relationship runs smoothly, he must also be able to detect addi-
tional potential for expanding the partnership or warning signals that the business
relationship may be endangered. So publications and practical applications specify
essential requirements that the key account manager as a person has to meet;
however,
these requirements are not always adequately fulﬁlled (Guenzi
et al. 2007).

The requirements include social competencies (capability to interact with
others) and personality traits, analytical and conceptional skills, and expertise
(Homburg and Krohmer 2009). Since the key account manager is usually the
essential interface between the supplier and customer companies, his social com-
petence along with his personality traits play a prominent role. But much is also
expected in regard to analytical-conceptional capabilities as well as expertise.

8.2.1 Social Competence

A key account manager’s social competence includes particularly the following
properties, which he needs when dealing with the customer’s employees as well as
those of his own company (Homburg and Krohmer 2009):

•

Intuition/empathy
The key account manager especially has to be able to understand the customer’s
actual interests, even when these are not explicitly expressed or when the
interests differ from the key account manager’s initial impression (Mayer and
Greenberg 2006).

• Communication skills

The key account manager is often the main information conduit from the
customer to the company and vice versa. So communication skills are needed
to collect and distribute the right information to the right place at the right time.
For information that he brings into the company, this can mean e.g. entering the
information in the CRM system and making it accessible to the employees who
need it. If the key account manager is head of a key account management team,

264

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

he should be able to promote decentralized communication between members of
the team (Sect. 8.3.2.2).

• Adaptability and ﬂexibility when interacting with other people

As described in Chap. 1 of this book, many business relationships take place in
an international context. This means that supplier companies and customer
companies may have different national cultures and business customs. So it is
absolutely essential that a key account manager be able to adapt and react to such
differences, always complying with legal stipulations, of course. The degree of
adaptability seems to be positively inﬂuenced by the experience and education
level of the key account manager (Ulaga and Sharma 2001).

• Capacity for teamwork

In most cases, key account management can be successful only when both the
supplier and the customer have specialists working part time on business rela-
tionship management or when key account management is always implemented
by a team. In both companies, these people can be research and development
employees, production engineers, programmers, quality managers or attorneys.
Such employees often have different professional backgrounds, so the key
account manager must be able to adapt to the respective communication customs
as well as to understand and sometimes interpret the technical language. A key
account manager’s capacity for the required teamwork also includes leadership
skills and conﬂict management skills (Lambe et al. 2009). He must also be in a
position to know which experts or specialists have to be consulted for which
issues (Steward et al. 2010).

• Assertiveness

It is very important that a key account manager be able to assert himself within
his own company. Inquiries and orders from the customer that the supplier can
fundamentally deal with may need to be prioritized in relation to other tasks in
the supplier company to be able to ﬁll orders as promised to the customer.
Determination and initiative are often essential to the key account manager.
The degree to which the key account manager can assert himself is strongly
dependent on where and how key account management is anchored in the
corporation and on internal competencies and processes, but his personal
disposition also plays an essential role (Ivens and Pardo 2008).

8.2.2 Personality Traits

In addition to social competencies, a key account manager’s personality traits are
also essential to mastering his tasks. Personality traits are considered to be aspects
of a person’s personality that do not change over time. It has been shown many
times that they inﬂuence a company’s sales performance (Churchill et al. 1985a).
The ﬁeld of psychology differentiates between ﬁve fundamental dimensions of
personality traits—the so-called “big ﬁve” (Digman 1990): conscientiousness,
agreeableness, emotional stability (or neuroticism as the opposite pole), openness
and extraversion (opposite pole: introversion). Since a key account manager is in a

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

265

position with a great amount of responsibility, he should demonstrate a high degree
of all ﬁve personality traits. Aspects of conscientiousness such as personal integrity
and reliability are required for a good relationship at the personal level between the
key account manager and the people he deals with within the customer’s company.
Since the key account manager serves as the most important interface between the
supplier and the customer company, he should be able to deal with many different
people. He should also be able to handle conﬂicts and tension inherent to this
interface position, and he should demonstrate emotional stability. A certain degree
of openness ensures that the key account manager is open to creative ideas and
recognizes approaches to solve a customer’s problems. Extraversion is expressed in
forceful action and approaching other people—traits that a key account manager
should deﬁnitely possess.

8.2.3 Analytical-conceptual Capabilities

Because of the great degree of responsibility associated with caring for a company’s
important customers, it is essential that a key account manager have a great deal of
analytical-conceptional skills. These are general, cognitive capabilities. When
confronted with new tasks, the key account manager should be able to quickly
structure them well and solve them. A high degree of analytical-conceptual skills is
reﬂected in intellectual capacity (processing speed, memory, creativity, processing
capacity) and special problem solving techniques. The skills can be ﬁgural-visual,
verbal or numeric (Homburg and Krohmer 2009). Analytical-conceptual skills can
be learned to a certain degree, e.g. by acquiring certain creativity, structural and
decision-making techniques.

8.2.4 Expertise on Customer and Business

As the most important contact person for the customer as well as an essential source
of information for the other functions within the supplier company, the key account
manager must possess a wealth of solid expertise. In addition to general knowledge
of business, technical and legal aspects and general managerial skills, it is particu-
larly important that the key account manager be well informed on matters related to
the customer and the speciﬁc business.

Among other aspects, this expertise includes knowledge of the following areas

(Homburg and Krohmer 2009):

• Market and sector conditions and customs
• Customer’s general business operations: strategic focus and economic situation,

sales and procurement markets, plans for the future

• Organization of customer’s company: structures, persons, processes, communi-

cation channels

266

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

• Cooperation with the customer: solutions to problems from within own company
(technological, organizational, ﬁnancial), critical aspects of cooperation, poten-
tial for expanding cooperation, indications that the business relationship may
need to be examined

• Problem solving skills of competition and realistic assessment of own standing

as supplier to the customer

• Own organization, particularly structures and persons (experts, specialists) to

quickly and competently deal with customer inquiries and orders

• Fundamental technical aspects of the own offering to the customer.

Some of the expertise that a key account manager needs can be acquired through
speciﬁc training or learned directly through practicing a profession, but some is
based on experience. The wealth of required expertise on the customer as well as
one’s own organization means that it makes sense to develop a marketing or sales
employee to ﬁll the position of key account manager instead of hiring someone to
directly take the position. This strategy is a common career path in many industries
(Homburg and Krohmer 2009).

An example of this can be found in the pharmaceutical industry, where future
key account managers are sometimes inducted into the position (taking responsibil-
ity for two to four large global customers) by accompanying the current job holder
for a year before ultimately taking over the position alone. This is intended to
ensure that the knowledge related to the customer as well as to the supplier is passed
from the old to the new key account manager and the new key account manager can
establish a similar reputation towards the customer as his predecessor had.

This procedure meets the need for continuity in key positions between the
supplier and customer company; depending on the branch, the bonding effect to a
certain person in the supplier company, often the key account manager, should not
be neglected (Palmatier et al. 2007). In some service sectors the loss of a key
account manager or a person acting in this capacity can mean the loss of the
customer, e.g. in management consulting or auditing. So for companies with stable
business relationships, it is worth offering the key account manager incentives to
remain in the position for a long time (Palmatier et al. 2007).

An exception that occurs once in a while, particularly when the supplier and
customer have a very close partnership, is that the key account manager goes to
work for the customer’s company. When this happens with the consent of both
companies, the loss of the key account manager may have positive effects, such as
even better cooperation with the customer.

8.3

Key Account Management Teams

As the course of this book has made clear, business relationship management is a
complex task that can only rarely be mastered by a single person within a company.
So institutionalized business relationship management in the form of key account
management has one key account manager, but he is often supported by a key

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

267

account management team (KAM team). Jones et al. summarized the state of
knowledge at the time as: “Key accounts are predominantly served by some sort
of team by supplier personnel” (Jones et al. 2005a, p. 181). Besides the key account
manager, such teams frequently include employees from marketing, production,
quality management, logistics and accounting (Homburg et al. 2002).

Unlike the constellation of a selling center, which is often put together ad hoc,
the composition of a key account management team is generally stable (Moon and
Strong 1994). So the customer’s employees deal with the same supplier employees
over a long period of time.

Some of the properties of a KAM team (Ahearne et al. 2010) are that:

•

It consists of single persons that see themselves as a social unit and are viewed
like this by outsiders as well

• These people depend on one another in their tasks
• The team is part of a larger organization
• The members develop a sense of community or esprit de corps and seek

synergies with other members of the team

• An attempt is made to enable greater performance than would be possible
through single persons. This is achieved by better balancing work packages,
improving information ﬂow and increasing motivation with mutual coaching
and feedback.

Like a key account manager, a KAM team is responsible for a certain customer.
It is in charge of developing and implementing the business relationship strategy for
the customer (Moon and Strong 1994). Because of the various contact points with
the customer company, in regard to the hierarchy level as well as to functional
responsibilities, the main goal of a KAM team is to develop and grow a strong
relationship with the customer (Moon and Strong 1994).

While customer service teams and KAM teams have been around for a while, it
is only in the last ﬁfteen years that academic research has begun to look closely at
the effects of KAM teams and their success factors. We are now going to examine
the reasons for establishing KAM teams (Sect. 8.3.1), the anticipated positive
effects (Sect. 8.3.3) and the success factors identiﬁed thus far (Sect. 8.3.2).

As Fig. 8.3 shows, the effects of KAM teams as well as the success factors that
inﬂuence them are located at both the team level and at the level of the overall
organization.

8.3.1 Reasons for Establishing Key Account Management Teams

The increased use of KAM teams over the last two decades can be attributed to
developments in the competitive environment, in both the customer company and
the supplier company.

Jones et al. (2005) see KAM teams as a way to counter the rise in competitive
pressure. Perry et al. (1999) also focus on the competitive environment when they

268

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Success factors specific to the organization

Organizational culture
(cid:129) Market orientation
(cid:129) Entrepreneurship

Organizational climate
(cid:129) Collaborative leadership
(cid:129) Evolved structures
(cid:129) Decentralized strategic planning

Organizational roles
(cid:129) Incentive systems
(cid:129) Training

Team composition
(cid:129) Right size
(cid:129) Technical and social competence
(cid:129) Matching

Success factors specific to a team
Team processes
(cid:129) Standards
(cid:129) Goals
(cid:129) Cohesion
(cid:129) Communication

Effects at the team level

Team level
(cid:129) Affective/cognitive (greater trust,
commitment, cohesion)
(cid:129) Behavioral (greater effort, 

productivity, ...)

Customer level
(cid:129) Better cooperation with customer
(cid:129) Greater customer satisfaction
(cid:129) Better quality of business relationship
(cid:129) Greater customer commitment

Effects at the corporate level

(cid:129) Revenue
(cid:129) Profit
(cid:129) Stronger customer loyalty
(cid:129) Improved customer acquisition

Fig. 8.3 Success factors and effects of KAM teams

(cid:129) Greater customer lifetime value

talk about quickly changing environments and customer demands, changes in the
technological environment and globalization of customers and competitors (Jones
et al. 2005).

An empirical study by Jackson et al. (1999) on the use of sales teams instead of

single persons reveals that teams are employed when

• The customer purchases a complex product for the ﬁrst time
• The customer needs a lot of information
• The key account requires special attention
• Multiple persons are involved in the purchase decision
• The speciﬁc transaction represents a high volume for the supplier company
• The speciﬁc product is new to the key account manager’s responsibilities or
• The complexity of the offer of products and services exceeds the cognitive

capacities of a single person from the supplier company (Jackson et al. 2010).

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

269

On the customer’s part, new customer demands and changing customer contact
patterns, such as electronic supplier-customer interfaces, have led to more KAM
teams (Dixon et al. 2002).

Supplier companies ultimately have high expectations of the implementation of
KAM teams. With the diffusion of the customer lifetime value concept (CLV,
Chap. 4), KAM teams are seen as a way to intensify the business relationship with a
customer (Perry et al. 1999) and to thus increase the CLV (Jones et al. 2005). This is
to be accomplished with better strategy coordination, more cross-selling and better
solutions for the customers (Ahearne et al. 2010). And the concept of relatively
autonomous teams goes well with the abolishment of hierarchies, evident in many
companies (Perry et al. 1999). Selling teams also contribute to better knowledge
management within the organization:
information on customers is collected,
distributed and used more effectively with technology-supported CRM (Arnett
and Badrinarayanan 2005).

Thus there are many reasons to employ KAM teams. So now the question is:
which speciﬁc effects should be achieved and what are the requirements to make
this possible?

8.3.2 Success Determinants of KAM Teams

Although there are many diverse reasons for introducing KAM teams and this
phenomenon of business relationship management can be seen more and more in
practice, simply implementing KAM teams cannot guarantee that the related
performance targets will be met. Research rather shows that certain factors can
promote or impede the success of KAM teams. Such success factors can be located
at the level of the overall organization as basic parameters. If these basic parameters
require the use of KAM teams, other determinants at the team level play a crucial
role in KAM teams fulﬁlling the hopes set in them.

As Lambe et al. (2009) point out in two empirical studies, this is still only very
rarely the case. Poor team management, lack of training and team members without
the essential skills prevent the set objectives from being reached. This is why the
following sections are dedicated to the examination of the factors that make a KAM
team successful.

8.3.2.1 Success Factors Specific to the Organization
The following factors are requirements or essential conditions for KAM teams to be
successful. They apply to the entire organization of the supplier company. Jones
et al. (2005) differentiate between the organizational culture, the organizational
climate and the organizational processes (Jones et al. 2005), whereby they refer to
publications on market orientation (Kohli and Jaworski 1990; Slater and Narver
1995).

An organization that values and promotes teamwork is particularly important to
successful establishment of KAM teams (Jones et al. 2005). This can happen best in
a “learning organization.” According to Slater and Narver (1995), such an

270

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

organization is characterized by two special features of organizational culture—
market orientation and entrepreneurship—and by three elements of the organiza-
tional climate: encouraging leadership, evolved structures and decentralized deci-
sion making.

Organizational Culture
As they relate to KAM teams, two aspects of organizational culture deserve special
attention: market orientation and entrepreneurship. Kohli and Jaworski (1990) see
market orientation as consisting of three basic processes that occur in the entire
market-oriented organization more or less as permanent background processes:
collection and generation of market intelligence, dissemination of this knowledge
throughout all departments and levels of the hierarchy, and a willingness
(responsiveness) throughout the organization to react to the knowledge. So the
market orientation is the part of the corporate culture that ensures that the company
acts in a way that promotes creation and maintenance of true customer and supplier
beneﬁts. So the market orientation serves as a guideline for (further) development
of a company’s offerings and of the future focus of its organization. The emphasis is
always on generating a high customer beneﬁt for one’s own customers without
losing sight of the supplier advantage. Since the customer beneﬁt is always gaged
from the customer’s point of view and his requirements are constantly evolving, a
market-oriented company has to keep up with changes and learn from the customers
(Jones et al. 2005).

When KAM teams work in a market-oriented company, it is easier for the team
members to see their own work through the customer’s eyes. They are able to
recognize dependencies between different functional areas that are essential to
ﬁnding a better solution for the customer. For example, when the introduction of
a new logistics concept is being planned, the logistics expert from the KAM team
would be better able to detect in discussions with the customer that, for the
customer, quality assurance aspects will be affected. He could in turn easily talk
about this with the quality manager in the KAM team, because both team members,
independently of their functional responsibilities, aim to offer the customer an
optimum solution. In an organization that is less market-oriented and is structured
e.g. strongly by function, such processes would cause more friction in a KAM
teams and, in the worst case, have a negative impact on the customer.

The second important basic parameter of organizational culture besides market
orientation that favors employment of KAM teams is entrepreneurship. Entre-
preneurship (sometimes called “intrapreneurship” when entrepreneurship within or
outwards from a corporation is meant (Jones et al. 2005), whereby we focus on both
meanings here) is expressed by proactive action, a certain risk tolerance, receptive-
ness to innovation and an active aversion to bureaucracy (Slater and Narver 1995).
Entrepreneurship within a corporation is manifested by entrepreneurial companies
recognizing and creatively utilizing market and innovation opportunities. This
includes, on the one hand, completely new business activities (new services, new
customers) and, on the other, constant monitoring and transformation of existing
business relationships with innovations (Jones et al. 2005). The principle of trial

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

271

and error is often applied in this process. Higher learning ability is attributed to an
organizational
entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurial
organizations are frequently those that ﬁrst introduce an innovation to the market
and reap higher proﬁts this way.

characterized

culture

by

In entrepreneurial companies KAM teams have the job of detecting even weak
signals from customers and turning them into new and creative solutions. In an
entrepreneurial company, KAM teams are set up as entrepreneurial units with the
necessary skills, resources and ﬂexibility to be able to easily react to new customer
demands.

Organizational Climate
While a company’s culture grows organically over an extended time and is difﬁcult
to change, aspects of the organizational climate are more tangible and easier to
modify. These include responsiveness and support of an organization, the leader-
ship style practiced, the type of relationships within the organization and the type of
conﬂict management (Jones et al. 2005). According to Slater and Narver (1995), the
following aspects of the organizational climate are central to the establishment of a
market-oriented, learning organization:

• Facilitative/collaborative leadership
• Organic/evolved structure
• Decentralized strategic planning.

Facilitative leadership is a leadership style in which the supervisor acts less as
an expert instructing his employees on how to perform their tasks and more as a
coach, motivating and supporting his employees. A key account manager who
practices such a collaborative, facilitative leadership style sensitizes his team
members and customers alike to topics that may become important in the future
and grants his team adequate access to all essential information. He facilitates an
open-minded and trusting climate in the KAM team and supports cooperation
amongst the team members. When contemplating important decisions, such as
expanding the KAM team or assigning roles within the team, such a key account
manager asks for the opinions of the team members or allows the team to participate
in the decision making process (Jones et al. 2005).

Evolved structures are used to pursue a high degree of adaptability. This
happens with informal processes, decentralized decision making authority and a
relatively low degree of specialization. Evolved structures always range between
the requirements of stability and ﬂexibility, between clarity and order on the one
side and spontaneity and responsiveness on the other. Companies that do justice to
both poles are characterized by open communication paths, personal responsibility
of the employees, getting things done and frequent decision making with group
consensus (Jones et al. 2005).

Evolved structures in KAM lead to KAM teams being able to make decisions
towards the customer themselves, roles and responsibilities in the team having
gradual transitions, and team members frequently communicating laterally to all

272

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

important sides. A KAM with evolved structures can react more quickly and
ﬂexibly to changed market needs, because changes are announced more quickly
and disseminated throughout the organization, and the KAM team can ultimately
react more quickly (Jones et al. 2005).

Collaborative leadership and evolved structures should be supplemented with
decentralized strategic planning. Although strategic planning in generally con-
sidered difﬁcult
in turbulent environments, Mintzberg (1994) claims that
decentralized planning is better suited to mid-term planning in environments
without major turbulence (Mintzberg 1994). So ongoing planning should take
place decentralized in the KAM teams. The KAM team is generally closest to the
market situation and can react the fastest. But it should also be responsible within
the organization for planning in regard to the respective key account. Such respon-
sibility also promotes the KAM team’s esprit de corps and its willingness to change
(Jones et al. 2005).

Organizational Rules and Procedures
Organizational
rules and procedures are essential, modiﬁable management
parameters and serve to regulate the activities of employees, departments,
subsidiaries or whole parts of the corporation (Jones et al. 2005, and in the
following, the publications quoted there). These can include certain uniform com-
munication routines, a uniform external appearance of members of the corporation
or a code of conduct that clearly deﬁnes behavior in certain situations. One purpose
of rules and procedures is to simplify cooperation beyond certain borders
(e.g. between departments, between subsidiaries, towards the customer). Rules
and procedures can be more standardized when a company’s surroundings are
quieter and more certain; they have to be more ﬂexible in uncertain, quickly
evolving surroundings. Since KAM teams care for single customers with individual
requirements, they have to be granted certain ﬂexibility in regard to rules and
procedures.

The most important management parameters in regard to KAM teams include

• Amount and structure of compensation, whereby the type of variable remunera-

tion is signiﬁcant

• Mechanisms to reward and recognize employee efforts
• Training and further education
• Allocation of time and monetary resources and
• The duration of membership in a KAM team (Jones et al. 2005).

The variable portion of compensation as well as other reward and recognition
mechanisms are intended to increase employee motivation in a way that causes the
employee to try even harder to reach goals (Fließ 2006). Improved achievement of
objectives could be reﬂected in greater customer satisfaction, higher revenue, lower
transaction costs, a higher customer contribution margin or achieving certain
functional-technical goals. Achievement of objectives can be a factor of certain
desirable behaviors.

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

273

Incentives and rewards can be linked either to reaching certain goals or to a
certain behavior (Krafft 1999). When deciding whether to base the incentive
systems on achieving an objective or on behavior, the degree to which the respec-
tive employee or KAM team can inﬂuence the goal should be a criterion for
consideration. The more achieving an objective (e.g. increasing customer satisfac-
tion or the customer contribution margin, etc.) depends on other people or
departments, the more important it is that the incentive system contains behavior-
based components. If an incentive system based on reaching an objective is
possible, the choice of target parameters is crucial: although increasing sales to a
customer (as a value that it easy to measure) is still often set as the goal for a key
account manager, economic factors favor the use of a customer contribution margin
or CLV as the target value (Chap. 4). This is the only way to reconcile the
employee’s incentives and the company’s goals. It is also advantageous to use
“soft factors” such as customer satisfaction as performance indicators in reward
systems. These early indicators can point out potential problems that would not
show up until later as lower customer contribution margins, were they not remedied
promptly. IBM, for example, uses customer satisfaction as an indicator for bonuses
(Dwyer and Tanner 2009).

In modern reward systems, components based on behavior and on achieving
objectives are balanced and are implemented in a balanced score card with the
appropriate controlling systems (Homburg and Krohmer 2009). We will not get into
a detailed discussion of incentive and motivation systems here (for more informa-
tion, refer e.g. to Fließ 2006). Instead the special features of incentive systems as
they relate to KAM teams will be examined.

Conventional incentive systems can be problematic for KAM teams when the
different members of the team are pursuing separate, individual goals. Members of
a KAM team are often also linked to a functional organization (e.g. R&D, produc-
tion, engineering, quality management) and can have conﬂicting objectives because
of the other responsibilities. So one suggestion originating from organizational
research is to no longer deﬁne goals and create incentives for single persons but
to do so at the team level (Gomez-Mejia and Balkin 1991; Jones et al. 2005). If it is
not possible to do this monetarily, non-monetary rewards such as team dinners or
events are effective ways to maintain team motivation.

After incentive systems, properly training KAM teams is the next most impor-
tant aspect to the teams’ success. Henke et al. (1993) observed that the members of
cross-functional teams are often selected well, but they then receive little or no
training to improve the team’s work. KAM teams should regularly participate in
training and coaching measures. Among other beneﬁts, they will learn to better
understand the speciﬁc skills of the other team members, their roles and the team
processes and goals (Jones et al. 2005).

Adequate time and resource allocation is amongst the essential management
parameters for a successful KAM team. It is particularly important for part-time
members of the KAM team that their membership in a KAM team and the inherent
time factor be speciﬁed in their job description. Otherwise these team members may
end up with additional work/responsibilities due to ambiguous jurisdiction. It goes

274

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

without saying that a KAM team should be equipped with the necessary ﬁnancial
resources.

In regard to the duration of membership in a KAM team, Jones et al. (2005)
argue that, on the one hand, continuity is important to the customer; but on the other
hand, working too long in a team with the same composition poses a risk that the
team’s performance will deteriorate. This is caused by declining creativity and
communication. So they advocate changing the makeup of KAM teams at regular
intervals.

8.3.2.2 Success Factors Specific to a Team
While the success determinants of KAM teams examined thus far are located at the
level of the overall organization, the next two sections will deal with two important
aspects at
the team level. In keeping with the classiﬁcation of Helfert and
Gemu¨nden (2005) as well as Arnett and Badrinarayanan (2005) we will differenti-
ate between team composition and team processes.

Team Composition
When putting together a KAM team, quantitative as well as qualitative aspects
should be taken into consideration. In regard to the size of the KAM team, Helfert
and Gemu¨nden (2005) say: as large as necessary and as small as possible. If the
team is too small, it cannot meet the wide range of customer demands over the long
term and will miss opportunities to expand the relationship. If the team is too big
though, the amount of coordination required increases disproportionately and the
dedication of the individual members falls.

In regard to the qualitative aspects of the team composition, Helfert and
Gemu¨nden (2005) differentiate between certain technical/functional and social
competencies that must be covered by a KAM team.

The technical competencies include:

• Technical skills:

The KAM team must be able to tell the customers about the precise performance
speciﬁcations of the offer and, when necessary, to provide training; to under-
stand the customer’s technical
requirements; and to initiate the proper
adaptations to meet the customer’s needs. In close partnerships, this includes
understanding the customer’s research and development process, production and
quality management. Depending on the type of customer relationship, a KAM
team may need several members to cover the full range of technical skills
required.

• Legal skills to compose contractual regulations
• Networking skills to be able to utilize relationships with third parties to beneﬁt

the business relationship (Sect. 5.5.2).

• Knowledge gained from experience with other business relationships.

The study by Homburg et al. (2002) revealed that companies employing such
cross-functional teams had the most successful KAM. There is a correlation

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

275

KAM team

KAM manager

Production  engineer

Quality manager

Outgoing logistics  expert

Contract manager

Customer team

Head of purchasing

Production  engineer

Quality manager

Incoming  logistics  expert

Contract manager

Main contact points

Fig. 8.4 Matching KAM team. Source: Based on Arnett and Badrinarayanan (2005)

between cross-functional population of a KAM team and, among other factors,
quicker learning and better coordination (Arnett and Badrinarayanan 2005).

The social competencies include the qualities described in Sect. 8.2.1 (empathy,
communication skills, adaptability, capacity for teamwork, assertiveness), as well
as a sense of justice and the capacity for cooperation (Helfert and Gemu¨nden 2005)
and the ability to practice collaborative leadership: “As products become more
complex, ﬁrms’ use of cross-functional teams means that salespeople must stay on
top of multiple learning curves and must exercise inclusive leadership skills while
keeping their teams’ focus on customer needs and wants” (Jackson et al. 2010,
p. 402).

Arnett and Badrinarayanan (2005) point out another essential aspect in regard to
the KAM should match the
the qualitative composition. When possible,
customer’s team. Since intensive business relationships hinge upon regular and
intensive sharing of information, technology, related services and ideas between
various employees, the exchange should take place through the interfaces best
suited to this purpose. For example, engineers from the two companies can deal
with design topics, while the logistics experts handle transport and storage aspects.
When the KAM team is matching the customer team, it is helpful to observe the
respective hierarchies and decision making authority in both companies. Figure 8.4
illustrates a matching KAM team.

Team Processes
Team processes are phenomena that occur as a result of the interaction within the
team. They can inspire or impede the team’s success. Team standards, team
objectives, team cohesion and team communication have emerged as particularly
important (Helfert and Gemu¨nden 2005).

Team standards are a team’s common beliefs on proper behavior, attitudes and
perceptions in regard to things important to the team. Important aspects to KAM
teams are particularly consensus regarding role allocation (Deeter-Schmelz and
Ramsey 1995), interpretation of information and its signiﬁcance to the business as

276

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

well the way in which strategy is implemented (Jones et al. 2005). Agreement on
common approaches to certain tasks as well as tolerance for different learning
orientations and styles are also mentioned. Constructive behavior in the event of
conﬂict within the team is especially important (Dixon et al. 2002). Helfert and
Gemu¨nden (2005) postulate that both the absolute manifestation of a standard and
the strict compliance with the standard by the entire team can positively impact
team effectiveness.

Team objectives describe a desirable future state of reality in regard to the KAM
team’s activities, thus deﬁning the purpose of team cooperation (Helfert and
Gemu¨nden 2005). This is why it is important that the team members have the
same goals and pursue a common mission (Jones et al. 2005). Speciﬁcally, it must
be ensured that corporate processes and incentive systems do not lead to conﬂicting
objectives for the individual members (Sect. 8.3.2.1). To achieve the greatest team
effectiveness, the team objectives should be clear, challenging, speciﬁc and, when
possible, measurable. Such team goals have a motivating, coordinating function
and they reduce conﬂict; they also contribute to better task performance by the team
(Helfert and Gemu¨nden 2005).

Team cohesion in a KAM team is the commitment of the team members to the
group and its tasks (Smith and Barclay 1993). Particularly when strongly interde-
pendent tasks are worked on in the team, which is often the case with KAM teams,
team cohesion seems to have a strong positive impact on team effectiveness (Gully
et al. 1995) Team cohesion can be of a social nature or be a factor of the task (Chang
and Bordia 2001). While social cohesion is a result of the team members’ person-
ality traits, task-based cohesion is evoked by pursuing common goals and working
on joint tasks. Various empirical studies have shown that team cohesion based on
tasks has a stronger impact on team effectiveness than does social (Helfert and
Gemu¨nden 2005).

Another essential team process is team communication within KAM teams.
Regular sharing of information within the team as well as into and out of the team
(e.g. sharing with other units in one’s own company, with the customer’s company,
with individual employees of the customer’s company or with the corporate
environment) is a conditio sine qua non to achieving the KAM objectives. Figure 8.5
shows the KAM team’s most important communication relationships. The small
circles represent individual members of the team. When the quality of communica-
tion is high, team members actively share information e.g. on changes in the
corporate environment or changes related to the customer. They also demand
feedback, request support and discuss any mistakes they may have made (Jones
et al. 2005). Consensus is reached more quickly when team meetings are held
frequently (Ahearne et al. 2010). Helfert and Gemu¨nden (2005) sum up these
aspects under the term communication intensity and continue to discuss different
communication patterns that are better or worse for the effectiveness of KAM
teams. It emerged that decentralized communication is better than central commu-
nication: the team members should communicate directly with the respective dialog
partners and not with one or multiple central person(s).

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

277

Supplier company

Customer company

Corporate
strategy

KAM team

Buying 
center

Corporate environment

Fig. 8.5 Essential communication relationships of the KAM team. Source: Based on Jones
et al. (2005)

8.3.3 Effects of Successful KAM Teams

Introduction of KAM teams is of course linked to certain goals regarding effective-
ness and efﬁciency of relationship management towards the customer. When both
organizational and team-speciﬁc success factors are present, the following effects
can be expected at the team and organization level.

8.3.3.1 Effects at the Team Level
Both team effects and customer-speciﬁc effects can be observed in successful KAM
teams.

Effects commonly mentioned include greater

trust amongst KAM team
members, stronger commitment to the team and company, higher satisfaction and
greater self-esteem of the individual team members (Perry et al. 1999). Group
cohesion also increases over time in successful teams. Another observation of the
effects at the team level is that they are reinforced by team processes that progress
positively and can be negative when processes progress negatively (Dixon
et al. 2002). The behavior of individual team members is positively impacted
when the success factors mentioned above are given: The degree of effort
expended, the quality and quantity of communication and task coordination, pro-
ductivity and the performance of certain tasks all improve, while absences decrease
(Perry et al. 1999). And such KAM teams are perceived by managers as being more
effective.

These positive repercussions in the KAM team are also reﬂected in the customer.
When KAM teams are successful, the degree of cooperation with the customer
often rises (Arnett et al. 2005), so the business relationship intensiﬁes. This is
accompanied by greater customer satisfaction and better assessment of the quality
of the business relationship by the customer (Perry et al. 1999). And the customer’s
commitment to the business relationship strengthens in this context.

278

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

8.3.3.2 Effects at the Corporate Level
Although effects at the KAM team level are relatively easy to capture and serve as a
good indication of the effectiveness of a KAM team, the ultimate purpose of
establishing KAM teams is to grant the supplier company an economic beneﬁt.
So KAM teams must give the company a measurable advantage. At the corporate
level, KAM teams promise higher revenue and proﬁt, stronger customer loyalty and
better customer acquisition (Perry et al. 1999). Ultimately, the effects at the
corporate level are that the value of the business relationship for the supplier
company increases and with it the customer lifetime value (Arnett et al. 2005).
Nowadays tracing the revenue and sales rates attributed to the KAM team is a
common way to check the effects of KAM team employment at the corporate level
(Jackson et al. 2010).

Despite all the hopes associated with KAM teams, it happens much too fre-
quently that the anticipated effects at the corporate level are not achieved, as Lambe
et al. (2009) report, citing various practical, empirical studies. To actually achieve
the desired effects, adequate attention has to be given to KAM team management
and particularly to the organizational and team-speciﬁc requirements.

8.4

Control and Supervision of Business Relationship
Management

Sections 8.1–8.3 of this chapter have focused primarily on planning aspects related
to the internal implementation of business relationship management. For example,
the following questions were answered: how should business relationship manage-
ment be organized? Which people are needed for business relationship management
and which working conditions should these people expect? The information con-
veyed in these sections form the foundation for successful implementation of
business relationship management.

The time aspect of business relationship management was only slightly touched
upon though. Business relationships change, some end and new ones are
established. Mistakes are made, and companies learn from good examples. So the
view of implementation of business relationship management must also have a
dynamic component. This ﬁnal section of Chap. 7 is intended to provide the
dynamic perspective, whereby reference will be made to concepts introduced in
other parts of this book.

Figure 8.6 shows business relationship management as a control loop that clearly
illustrates the dynamic aspects mentioned. In engineering applications, the goal of
such a loop is to keep a technical process (controlled system) stable enough that the
desired control variable is optimized over the time period in question. Different
stabilizers are used to compensate for changes to the control variable caused by
disturbances.

In business relationship management, the market process in the customer’s
company represents the controlled system affected by different disturbances and
for which the output is to be optimized over time. Possible control variables can be

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

279

Reference
values

Control
deviation
-

Stabilizer Business relationship management

s
e
l
b
a
i
r
a
v
 
l
o
r
t
n
o
c
 

o
t
 
n
r
u
t
e
R

Control variables

 

d
e
t
a
l
u
p
i
n
a

s
e
u
l
a
v

M

Disturbances 

(from supplier or customer company,

competitive environment and global environment)

Controlled system Market process
in customer company

Fig. 8.6 Business relationship management as a loop. Source: Based on Plinke (2000)

e.g. customer satisfaction, the supplier share of customer deliveries (share of
wallet), the customer contribution margin or the customer value (Chap. 4). To
optimize these variables using the stabilizer business relationship management,
they must ﬁrst be speciﬁed as goals of business relationship management and thus
reference values. This may seem obvious at ﬁrst glance. At second glance, however,
problems become apparent. These are the result of conﬂicts between the objectives,
such as between revenue and contribution margin in a business relationship. We
will look more closely at the reference values in Sect. 8.4.1.

Chapters 5, 6 and 8 of this book provide information on how business relation-
ship management can act as a stabilizer and thus generate the required manipulated
value. When the proper decisions are made and implemented, business relationship
management is capable of correcting a potential control deviation at a certain point
in time t0.

Disturbances can be any developments in the supplier, customer or competitor
company as well as factors from the global political, social, economic and techno-
logical environment. These disturbances affect development of the business rela-
tionship with the customer company between the times t0 and t1, often causing the
control variables at time t1 to take on a different value than the supplier company
wanted at time t0. Even if the following point seems as trivial as paying special
attention to the reference values, it is extremely signiﬁcant: as a return to the control
variables. Business relationship management may intervene and act (only at the
time t1) when the goals and results diverge (reference and control variable) only
when the results of actions part of business relationship management (regulator that
produces the manipulated value) and the subsequent behavior of the controlled
system, including its reactions to the potential disturbances, can be attributed to
coordination with the goals of business relationship management, meaning that
business relationship management
is constantly monitored. When monitoring
occurs in the course of business relationship management, the various control
parameters, changing at varying speeds, as well as their interrelation should be
examined. Section 8.4.2 is dedicated to monitoring of business relationship
management.

280

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

8.4.1 Controlling Business Relationship Management

Since business relationship management is a form of market cultivation and not a
goal in itself, the question should be posed as to which control parameters should be
applied to leadership of a company. While the purest form of the shareholder value
approach focuses on the one-dimensional overall objective of increasing the corpo-
rate value, the stakeholder value approach emphasizes long-term viability of the
company and keeps in mind the interests of all stakeholders. The marketing
perspective interprets the essence of both approaches to mean that marketing
activities should be geared towards generating the highest possible customer
value (in the sense of a customer’s value to the supplier company) for all customers,
which then leads to a higher corporate value (Wiesel et al. 2008). The customer
lifetime value (CLV) of every customer should be optimized for this purpose. This
top-down perspective requires that the business relationship management control
parameters be aligned with the company’s economic goals.

Economic parameters (CLV, contribution margins, costs), however, are often
located at the end of the chain of action in which the most varied events can have
occurred and have led to these variables being as pronounced as observed. Because
it is downstream in regard to time, controlling business relationship management
solely with economic parameters is not appropriate. Perception and behavior
parameters, such as customer satisfaction or the activity level with the customer,
should rather be used as control parameters as well. These parameters are much
closer to the actual business activities and can thus be inﬂuenced more directly. So
it
to apply a mixture of control variables that meet different
requirements. This can occur e.g. in the form of a balanced scorecard (BSC)
(Homburg and Krohmer 2009).
together,

the following—not always

is beneﬁcial

When taken all
consistent—criteria:

they should meet

• Geared towards the corporate goals: aligning the control parameters to the
corporate goals (corporate value, proﬁt, capacity, etc.) sets the direction for
business relationship management.

• Proximity to cause and potential to exert inﬂuence: control parameters can be
inﬂuenced only when parameters are selected that can be allocated to certain
business actions, allowing any undesirable developments to be corrected.

• Relevance to future: although the actual control parameters are values from the
present and the past, the control parameters used should be effectively measur-
able and thus relevant to the future. This is the only way to ensure that they can
be inﬂuenced and business relationship management can specify developments
instead of chasing after them.

• Compatibility of incentives: if certain incentives are linked to the control
parameters of business relationship management, e.g. if bonuses paid to the
key account manager depend on them, the control parameters should be compat-
ible with the corporate goals to avoid setting individual misguided incentives.

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

281

• Unequivocal and sturdy measurement: to ensure that nominal values and actual
values can be compared and to facilitate comparisons over time, the type of
measurement must be precisely speciﬁed. And the extent to which measurement
can be inﬂuenced should be revealed to prevent any potential conﬂicts of
interest.

• Measurement requiring little effort: a control and monitoring system generates
costs on its own. To keep these costs to a minimum, the control parameters
implemented in the system should be able to be measured at the lowest cost
possible.

The following section will introduce essential economic control parameters as
well as control parameters based on behavior and perception. An overview of the
different control parameters selected and their tendency to fulﬁll the above criteria
can be seen in Table 8.2.

In addition to selecting control parameters suitable for business relationship
management, specifying the target values (nominal values) in regard to the
parameters is a requirement of systematic controlling. The degree of the goals as
well as the time in which the goals are to be met should be precisely speciﬁed. And
the person(s) responsible for meeting the goals should be clearly stated.

8.4.1.1 Economic Control Parameters
We already learned about the customer lifetime value (CLV) as a control parame-
ter in Chap. 4. It is based on a future-oriented assessment of each business
relationship, which takes into consideration the directly anticipated and discounted
cash ﬂow of a certain customer as well as—depending on the model applied—
positive and negative economies of scope, such as the future reference and infor-
mation value of a customer. If a company in a business relationship generates a high
CLV, this is an indication of a pronounced competitive advantage. A positive aspect
of CLV is that it is a control parameter that is based on the company’s comprehen-
sive, future goals. However, it is difﬁcult to measure, in regard to both the structure
of the measuring instruments (e.g. setting the period to be examined and the interest
rate) and measurement or estimation of individual variables (cash ﬂow forecasts,
value of references and information, customer-speciﬁc costs). Values calculated in
this way are much less reliable than other performance indicators. The CLV is
susceptible to being consciously “cosmetically recalculated.” Despite its theoretic
advantages, the CLV is suitable for controlling business relationship management
only in companies capable of dealing with the difﬁculties mentioned.

A more manageable control parameter at the ﬁnancial level is the customer-
speciﬁc contribution margin (Chap. 4). Measurement of the current customer-
speciﬁc contribution margin is based on the past and can reveal changes in the
business relationship only well after their occurrence, but it is also geared towards
the corporate goals. It is more difﬁcult to measure than the customer-speciﬁc
revenue, because customer-speciﬁc costs have to be determined for the calcula-
tion. Determining the costs that can be attributed to a single customer is often
difﬁcult, because especially sales and customer care costs are often recorded as

282

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

t
n
e
m
e
r
u
s
a
e
M

e
l
t
t
i
l

g
n
i
r
i
u
q
e
r

/
l
a
c
o
v
i
u
q
e
n
U

y
d
r
u
t
s

y
t
i
l
i
b
i
t
a
p
m
o
C

t
r
o
f
f
e

 
 
 

t
n
e
m
e
r
u
s
a
e
m

 
 
 

0

+
+

0

0

+

0

0

0

 

+
+
+

0

0

+

+
+
+

+

+

0

+

s
e
v
i
t
n
e
c
n
i

f
o

+
+

+
+

 

0

0

0

+
+

+
+

+
+

+

e
c
n
a
v
e
l
e
R

:
e
r
u
t
u
f

o
t

+
+
+

0

0

0

+

+

+

+

+

+

/
e
s
u
a
c

o
t

y
t
i

m
i
x
o
r
P

s
d
r
a
w
o
t

d
e
r
a
e
G

t
r
e
x
e

o
t

l
a
i
t
n
e
t
o
p

e
t
a
r
o
p
r
o
c

e
h
t

a
i
r
e
t
i
r
C

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
m
p
i
h
s
n
o
i
t
a
l
e
r

s
s
e
n
i
s
u
b

f
o

s
r
e
t
e
m
a
r
a
p

l
o
r
t
n
o
c

d
e
t
c
e
l
e
S

2
8

.

e
l
b
a
T

e
c
n
e
u
ﬂ
n
i

 
 

0

0

0

0

0

+
+
+

+
+
+

+
+

+
+

s
l
a
o
g

+
+
+

s
r
e
t
e
m
a
r
a
p

l
o
r
t
n
o
C

e
m

i
t
e
f
i
l

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

e
u
l
a
v

+
+

c
ﬁ
i
c
e
p
s
-
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

c
i
m
o
n
o
c
E

s
r
e
t
e
m
a
r
a
p

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

n
i
g
r
a
m
n
o
i
t
u
b
i
r
t
n
o
c

c
ﬁ
i
c
e
p
s
-
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

e
u
n
e
v
e
r

c
ﬁ
i
c
e
p
s
-
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

s
t
s
o
c

t
e
l
l
a
w

f
o

e
r
a
h
S

d
n
a

n
o
i
t
p
e
c
r
e
P

r
o
i
v
a
h
e
b

t
n
e
m
y
a
p

s
’
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

y
l
p
p
u
s

n
w
O

e
c
n
a
m
r
o
f
r
e
p

f
o
e
p
y
t
d
n
a

r
e
b
m
u
N

s
t
c
a
t
n
o
c

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c

f
o
e
p
y
t
d
n
a

r
e
b
m
u
N

h
t
i

w
s
t
c
e
j
o
r
p

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c

n
o
i
t
c
a
f
s
i
t
a
s

r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

s
r
e
t
e
m
a
r
a
p

r
o
i
v
a
h
e
b

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

283

overhead. In contrast, customer-speciﬁc revenue can be clearly measured without
substantial effort, so many companies apply this method despite the associated
problems of setting incentives as a control parameter. In comparison to the CLV,
the variables contribution margin, revenue and costs are much easier to implement
in a conventional cost accounting system and are more resistant to factors that
inﬂuence measurement. But, because they are based on the past, these variables
cannot be used to reﬂect e.g. investments in a customer that are considered costs for
accounting purposes. The economic variables discussed in Chap. 4 can of course
also be used in addition to these control parameters.

8.4.1.2 Control Parameters Based on Behavior and Perception
While the economic control parameters indicate the ﬁnancial results or the projec-
tion of results of the actual business cooperation, control parameters based on
behavior and perception assess the cooperation itself. So they are highly susceptible
to inﬂuence and can usually be measured pretty explicitly. From the customer’s
point of view, the supplier share of wallet can serve as a global indicator of the
signiﬁcance of a business relationship. As a control parameter, this value is
particularly interesting in regard to the development over time: if the supplier
share of wallet falls repeatedly, this can be taken as a clear indication that one no
longer has a competitive advantage with this customer and efforts should be made
to gain an advantage again. But since measuring the supplier share of wallet
requires information on the customer’s other supply relationships, which may
need to be estimated, it is not an easy value to measure. Payment behavior is
another indicator for a business relationship’s future potential (Hermes 2011) and
can be applied as an early warning signal. It is easy to measure by comparing the
terms of payment and actual receipt of payment.

In regard to one’s own performance in the business relationship, it is beneﬁcial
to compare actual to agreed supply performance. Depending on the type of
business, factors such as adherence to schedules, quality assurance results of
customer’s inspection of incoming goods or the number of complaints can be
used as indicators. These variables are amongst those that can be most easily
inﬂuenced, making them particularly relevant for ongoing monitoring of the busi-
ness relationship. Also, they can be unequivocally measured with little effort, as
long as the indicators required are clearly deﬁned such that they can also be used in
incentive systems.

When a CRM system or sales information system is used, types and quantity of
customer contacts can also be kept track of. Essential information that can be
gained includes e.g. which of the supplier’s employees talked to which of the
customer’s employees, and what they talked about when. Special attention should
be paid to customer complaints and the notation on how they were treated (Hom-
burg and Fu¨rst 2005).

Apart from daily business, the types and quantity of projects with the cus-
tomer play a signiﬁcant role. Projects often serve to intensify the business relation-
ship and to create additional value for both sides. They promote the future security
of the business relationship and can be deﬁned as goals for individual employees or

284

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

the entire KAM team, and they can generate incentive. But since each case is
different, measuring this value can be problematic.

The last—yet very important—indicator for controlling a business relationship
is customer satisfaction. It represents a global quality indicator for the business
relationship and offers a comparison between expectations and perception of the
business relationship (Chap. 3). To be able to use this as a reliable control parame-
ter, it is essential to ﬁrst determine how the data is collected and who is surveyed.
To avoid replies biased by social desirability, customer satisfaction surveys should
be conducted by third parties. So measuring this variable always incurs costs.

8.4.2 Monitoring Business Relationship Management

These target/performance comparisons based on the past should not be limited to
comparison. The respective controlling bodies (e.g. KAM team) should rather
attempt to discover related contents and reasons for why the control parameters
developed in the way they did. The reasons may be found in one’s own company or
the customer’s company, or related to the competition or the environment. Correc-
tive measures can be introduced and implemented only when the causes of a certain
development of the control parameters are revealed. When investigating the reasons
for certain manifestations, it is worthwhile to use control parameters that are not
equidistant from daily operation and to survey the parameters at different intervals:
for example, an increase in the number of customer complaints can serve as an
indication that the next survey will show a decrease in customer satisfaction if
countermeasures are not immediately implemented. Customer satisfaction is often a
preliminary indicator for the development of customer value, which may be
expressed in a greater willingness to pay (Homburg et al. 2005) and ultimately
higher proﬁtability for the supplier company (Anderson et al. 1994).

In addition to comparing target and performance values—which are based on the
past—monitoring business relationship management also includes anticipating
future developments and adapting business relationship management to accommo-
date them (Steinmann and Schreyo¨gg 2005). It is beneﬁcial to monitor at regular
intervals and to apply elements of strategic foresight. Quantitative as well as
qualitative information should be used, such as long-term market/industry
developments that may arise from changes in the technological environment.
Scenario analyses are especially useful when there has been substantial upheaval
in the corporate environment (Cornelius et al. 2005). Dwyer and Tanner (2009)
suggest conducting an annual marketing audit for monitoring purposes. In the
course of such an audit, the values determined for business relationship manage-
ment control should be analyzed in regard to their time sequence as well, because
some developments and correlations are not revealed when only a point in time is
examined.

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

285

Exercises

1. State reasons in favor of introducing key account management in a company as

an organizational form.

2. Explain the term “part-time relationship management.” Which criteria speak
for and which against the fundamental organizational option key account
management?

3. Weigh the pros and cons of introducing “part-time relationship management”
and “full-time relationship management.” Which criteria would you examine in
designing the constellation?

4. Which subdivisions of “full-time relationship management” are you familiar

with?

5. What is the correlation between key account management and the formation of

“strategic business units”? Explain potential conﬂicts.

6. When does it make sense to set up key account management as a staff unit?
7. When does it make sense to set up key account management as a management

board division?

8. Which conditions support establishment of key account management as corpo-

rate divisions?

9. Explain how the complexity of the business relationship affects how business

relationship management is designed.

10. Explain why, when business relationship management is successful, greater
demands are placed on the key account manager than on a common sales
employee.

11. Which determinants of successful employment of key account management

teams at the organizational level are you familiar with?

12. Which team-speciﬁc success factors should be kept in mind when employing

key account management teams?

13. Why should control of business relationship management not be based solely

on economic variables? Which other control variables may make sense?

14. Which criteria should business relationship management control parameters

fulﬁll? Explain them.

15. Which future-oriented ways to monitor business relationship management are

you familiar with? Compare them to those based on the past.

References

Ahearne, M., MacKenzie, S. B., Podsakoff, P. M., Mathieu, J. E., & Lam, S. K. (2010). The role of

consensus in sales team performance. Journal of Marketing Research, 47(3), 458–469.

Anderson, J. C., Hakansson, H., & Johanson, J. (1994). Dyadic business relationships within a

business network context. Journal of Marketing, 58(4), 1–15.

Arnett, D. B., & Badrinarayanan, V. (2005). Enhancing customer-needs-driven CRM strategies:
Core selling teams, knowledge management, and relationship marketing competence. Journal
of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 25(1), 27–42.

286

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Arnett, D. B., Macy, B. A., & Wilcox, J. B. (2005). The role of core selling teams in supplier-buyer

relationship. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 25(1), 27–42.

Chang, A., & Bordia, P. (2001). A multidimensional approach to the group cohesion-group

performance relationship. Small Group Research, 32(4), 379–405.

Churchill, G. A., Ford, N. M., Hartley, S. W., & Walker, O. C. (1985a). The determinants of
salesperson performance: A meta-analysis. Journal of Marketing Research, 22(2), 103–118.
Churchill, G. A., Ford, N. M., & Walker, O. C., Jr. (1985b). Sales force management, planning,

implementation and control. Homewood, IL: IRWIN.

Cornelius, P., Van de Putte, A., & Romani, M. (2005). Three decades of scenario planning in shell.

California Management Review, 48(1), 92–109.

Deeter-Schmelz, D. R., & Ramsey, R. (1995). A conceptualization of the functions and roles of
formalized selling and buying teams. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 15(2),
47–60.

Digman, J. M. (1990). Personality structure: Emergence of the ﬁve-factor model. Annual Review

of Psychology, 41(1), 417.

Diller, H. (1988). Key account management auf dem Pru¨fstand, Teil 1. Lebensmittelzeitung, 30,

F3–F4.

Diller, H. (1989). Key account management als vertikales Marketingkonzept. Marketing-ZFP, 11

(4), 213–223.

Dixon, A. L., Gassenheimer, J. B., & Barr, T. F. (2002). Bridging the distance between us: How
initial responses to sales team conﬂict help share core selling team outcomes. Journal of
Personal Selling & Sales Management, 22(4), 247–257.

Dwyer, R. F., & Tanner, J. F. J. (2009). Business marketing: Connecting strategy, relationships,

and learning (4th ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill.

Fließ, S. (2006). Vertriebsmanagement. In M. Kleinaltenkamp, W. Plinke, F. Jacob, & A. So¨llner

(Eds.), Markt- und Produktmanagement (pp. 369–494). Wiesbaden.

Gaitanides, M., Westphal, J., & Wiegels, I. (1991). Zum Erfolg von Strategie und Struktur des

Kundenmanagement 2. Teil. Zeitschrift f€ur F€uhrung + Organisation, 1991(2), 121–124.

Gomez-Mejia, L. R., & Balkin, D. B. (1991). Effectiveness of individual and aggregate compen-

sation strategies. Industrial Relations, 28(3), 431–445.

Guenzi, P., Pardo, C., & Georges, L. (2007). Relational selling strategy and key account managers’
Industrial Marketing Management, 36(1),

relational behaviors: An exploratory study.
121–133.

Guesalaga, R. (2007). Top management

its
dimensions, and strategic outcomes. ISBM Report 5-2007, Institute for The Study of Business
Markets.

involvement with key accounts: The concept,

Gully, S. M., Devine, D. J., & Whitney, D. J. (1995). A meta-analysis of cohesion and perfor-
mance: Effects of levels of analysis and task interdependence. Small Group Research, 26(4),
497–520.

Helfert, G., & Gemu¨nden, H. G. (2005). Relationship marketing teams. In M. Ho¨gl, & H. G.
Gemu¨nden (Eds.), Management von Teams – Theoretische Konzepte und empirische Befunde
(pp. 125–154). Wiesbaden.

Henke, J. W., Krachenberg, A. R., & Lyons, T. F. (1993). PERSPECTIVE: Cross-functional
teams: Good concept, poor implementation. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 10
(3), 216–229.

Hermes, V. (2011). Less risk, more fun. Absatzwirtschaft, 54(4), 70–74.
Homburg, C., & Fu¨rst, A. (2005). How organizational complaint handling drives customer loyalty:
An analysis of the mechanistic and the organic approach. Journal of Marketing, 69, 95–114.
Homburg, C., Koschate, N., & Hoyer, W. D. (2005). Do satisﬁed customers really pay more? A
study of the relationship between customer satisfaction and willingness to pay. Journal of
Marketing, 69(2), 84–96.

Homburg, C., & Krohmer, H. (2009). Marketing management (3rd ed.). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

8 Internal Implementation of Business Relationship Management

287

Homburg, C., Workman, J. P., Jr., & Jensen, O. (2000). Fundamental changes in marketing
organization: The movement toward a customer-focused organizational structure. Journal of
the Academy of Marketing Science, 28(4), 459–478.

Homburg, C., Workman, J. P. J., & Jensen, O. (2002). A conﬁgurational perspective on key

account management. Journal of Marketing, 66(4), 38–60.

Ivens, B. S., & Pardo, C. (2008). Key-account-management in business markets: An empirical test

of common assumptions. Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, 23(5), 301–310.

Jackson, D. W., Jr., Schlacter, J. L., Bridges, C. M., & Gallan, A. S. (2010). A comparison and
expansion of the bases used for evaluating salespeople’s performance. Journal of Marketing
Theory & Practice, 18(4), 395–406.

Jackson, D. W., Jr., Widmier, S. M., Giacobbe, R., & Keith, J. E. (1999). Examining the use of
team selling by manufacturers’ representatives: A Situational approach. Industrial Marketing
Management, 28(2), 155–164.

Jones, E., Dixon, A. L., Chonko, L. B., & Cannon, J. P. (2005). Key accounts and team selling: A
review, framework, and research agenda. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 25
(2), 182–198.

Knetsch, W. A. (1990). Key account management: Die Hingabe zum Kunden. In Arthur D. L. (ed.)

(Ed.), Management der Hochleistungsorganisation (pp. 93–104). Wiesbaden.

Ko¨hler, R.

(1984). Marketingplanung in Abha¨ngigkeit von Umwelt- und Organisations-
merkmalen. In J. Mazanec, & F. e. Scheuch (Eds.), Marktorientierte Unternehmensf€uhrung
(pp. 581–602). Wien.

Kohli, A. K., & Jaworski, B. J. (1990). Market orientation: The construct, research propositions,

and managerial implications. Journal of Marketing, 54(2), 1–18.

Krafft, M. (1999). An empirical investigation of the antecedents of sales force control systems.

Journal of Marketing, 63(3), 120–134.

Lambe, C. J., Webb, K. L., & Ishida, C. (2009). Self-managing selling teams and team perfor-
mance: The complementary roles of empowerment and control. Industrial Marketing Man-
agement, 38(1), 5–16.

Mayer, D., & Greenberg, H. M. (2006). What makes a good salesman. Harvard Business Review,

84(7/8), 164–171.

Mintzberg, H. (1994). The rise and fall of strategic planning. New York.
Moon, M. A., & Strong, G. M. (1994). Selling teams: A conceptual framework and research

agenda. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 14(1), 17–30.

Mu¨ller, V., & Ivens, B. (2011). Performance effects of different skill types among key account
managers: An empirical study. In T. Mahlama¨ki, O. Uusitalo, & D. Jansson (Eds.), Proceedings
of the 5th International Conference on Business Market Management, Tampere, 2011
(pp. 252–257)

Palmatier, R. W., Scheer, L. K., & Steenkamp, J.-B. E. M. (2007). Customer loyalty to whom?
Managing the beneﬁts and risks of salesperson: Owned loyalty. Journal of Marketing
Research, 44, 185–199.

Pegram, R. M. (1972). Selling and serving the national account. New York.
Perry, M. L., Pearce, C. L., & Sims, H. P., Jr. (1999). Empowered selling teams: How shared
leadership can contribute to selling team outcomes. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales
Management, 19(3), 35–51.

Plinke, W.

des

(2000). Grundkonzeption

In
M. Kleinaltenkamp, & W. Plinke (Eds.), Technischer Vertrieb – Grundlagen des Business-
to-Business Marketing (pp. 101–170). Berlin.

industriellen Marketing-Managements.

Rieker, S. A. (1995). Bedeutende Kunden – Ansa¨tze zur Analyse und Gestaltung von langfristigen

Anbieter-Nachfrager-Beziehungen auf industriellen Ma¨rkten. Wiesbaden

Schreyo¨gg, G.

(2003). Organisation: Grundlagen moderner Organisationsgestaltung, 4th

completely revised and expanded edition. Wiesbaden.

Shapiro, B. P., & Moriarty, R. T. (1980). National account management (M. S. Institute, Trans.).

Cambridge (MA): Marketing Science Institute.

288

I. Geiger and M. Kleinaltenkamp

Shapiro, B. P., & Moriarty, R. T. (1982). National account management – Emerging insights

(M. S. Institute, Trans.). Cambridge (MA): Marketing Science Institute.

Shapiro, B. P., & Moriarty, R. T. (1984). Organizing the national account force (M. S. Institute,

Trans.). Cambridge: Marketing Science Institute.

Sidow, H. D. (1993). Key account management (2nd ed.). Landsberg am Lech.
Slater, S. F., & Narver, J. C. (1995). Market orientation and the learning organization. Journal of

Marketing, 59(3), 63–74.

Smith, J. B., & Barclay, D. W. (1993). Team selling effectiveness: A small group perspective.

Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing, 1(2), 3.

Steinmann, H., & Schreyo¨gg, G. (2005). Management: Grundlagen der Unternehmensfu¨hrung (6th

ed.). Wiesbaden.

Steward, M., Walker, B., Hutt, M., & Kumar, A. (2010). The coordination strategies of high-
performing salespeople: Internal working relationships that drive success. Journal of the
Academy of Marketing Science, 38(5), 550–566.

Thomas, W. (1987). Vom Verka¨ufer zum Manager des Direktverkaufs. Absatzwirtschaft, 30(10),

427–440.

Tosdal, H. R. (1950). Introduction to Sales Management. New York et al.
Ulaga, W., & Sharma, A. (2001). Complex and strategic decision making in organizations:
Implications for personal selling and sales management. Industrial Marketing Management,
30(5), 427–440.

Weitz, B., & Anderson, E. (1981). Organizing the marketing function. In B. M. Enis, & K. J. e.

Roering (Eds.), Review of marketing (pp. 134–142). Chicago

Wengler, S. (2006). Key account management in business-to-business markets: An assessment of

Ist economic value. Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Wiesel, T., Skiera, B., & Villanueva, J. (2008). Customer equity: An integral part of ﬁnancial

reporting. Journal of Marketing, 72(1), 1–14.

Wolter, F.-H. (1985). Großkundenmanagement. Durch kundenspeziﬁsche Verkaufsorganisation zu

mehr Umsatz. Landsberg am Lech

Zeithaml, V. A., Varadarajan, P. R., & Zeithaml, C. P. (1988). The contingency approach: Ist
foundations and relevance to theory building and research in marketing. European Journal of
Marketing, 22(7), 37–64.

Zupancic, D. (2008). Towards an integrated framework of key account management. Journal of

Business & Industrial Marketing, 23(5), 323–331.

Zupancic, D., & Tomczak, T. (2004). Internationales Key Account Management. In J. Zentes, &
B. Swoboda (Eds.), Fallstudien zum Internationalen Management (2nd ed., pp. 887–900).
Wiesbaden.

Customer Relationship Management

9

Martin Gersch

9.1

CRM: Terms and Fundamentals

9.1.1 Object of CRM

The term customer relationship management (CRM) emphasizes the use of Infor-
mation Technology (IT) for targeted analysis, planning and makeup of business
relationships with individual purchasers/customers (business relationship manage-
ment). CRM is a management concept as well as a technological concept that
utilizes application systems to support business processes for business relationship
management (Laudon et al. 2010; Leußer et al. 2011).

As part of comprehensive development, the economic expectations in regard to
usefulness of available microdata (Kroenke 2013; Shapiro and Varian 1998;
Zerdick et al. 2001), are changing as a result of the information technological (r)
evolution and digital convergence taking place for years now, particularly in regard
to the ability to compile, evaluate and link data as well as use it commercially. In
this sense, CRM is a speciﬁcation of the approaches on the use of information
technology (Mertens 2010) for companies in regard to potential and existing
business relationships to individual purchasers/customers.

9.1.1.1 CRM: New IT Conditions for Old Ideas?!
Neither the fundamental
ideas of business relationship management nor the
concepts and methods that go with it are really new. They have been in use for a
long time, sometimes without explicit names and sometimes in conjunction with
evolving catchwords (e.g. business relationship management, relationship manage-
ment, one-to-one marketing) (Bruhn 2007; Gersch 1998; Helmke et al. 2008;
Hippner 2006; Sexauer 2002).

M. Gersch (*)
School of Business & Economics, Freie Universita¨t Berlin, Berlin, Germany
e-mail: martin.gersch@fu-berlin.de

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5_9

289

290

M. Gersch

For centuries now economic actors have suspected the different values of
customers, observed different behavior in individuals, formed implicit or explicit
customer groups and taken these assessments into consideration when designing
their strategies and sales policy instruments. It has been possible for a long time as
well to apply evaluations of available data with statistical methods to forming
groups with similar properties in regard to selected criteria and/or forming and
testing assumptions about the effect of strategies and sales policy instruments
(market segmentation, Freter 2008).

However, the following aspects have changed the basic conditions, requirements
and prospects of success of business relationship management so fundamentally
that the CRM euphoria observed for a while becomes absolutely understandable:
More intensive competition with inherent pressure on the companies induces the
companies to keep looking for potential improvement that could lead to competitive
advantages. It was no later than the studies of the 1990s (Peppers and Rogers 1997;
Reichheld and Sasser 1990; Reichheld 1993) that revealed the different meaning of
customers, in regard to costs as well as to revenue, and explained a greater
awareness in science and in practice in regard to differentiated analysis, planning
and control of the relationship to individual customers using terms such as “rela-
tionship management” and “business relationship management.”

Dramatically fast-paced developments in information technology beginning the
1990s (Laudon et al. 2010) as well as particularly the use of the internet beginning
in 1995 in conjunction with terms such as “electronic business” and “electronic
commerce” (Gersch 2010) changed the basic conditions and possibilities of busi-
ness relationship management in many ways. Examples of changes or completely
new potentials that promoted greater attention to customer relationship manage-
ment (CRM) include:

(cid:129) Digitalization and cross-linkage of service creation, transaction and administra-
tive processes with respective differentiation of data availability. The explosive
growth in the use of online media (Infratest 2009; Laudon and Kraver 2010)
along value-chains (Gersch 2010) as well as between individuals (employees
and/or consumers: web 2.0; social networks) are relevant here.
Increasing the availability of better technical ways to store and process mass data
(explosion in performance) along with continuously falling costs for storage,
evaluation and transmission of data (Weiber 2002).

(cid:129)

(cid:129) Availability of integrated CRM software systems, acting as “technological
enablers” to open new ways to manage customer relationships (Leußer
et al. 2011).

(cid:129) Continued development of concepts for systematic and targeted use of evolving
IT capacities as the framework of business relationship management, particu-
larly for individual collection, analysis and use of data related to single
customers. In combination with concepts that increase ﬂexibility, such as modu-
lar design and “mass customization” (Pine 1993; Piller 1998, 2001),
the
prerequisites for customizing the offering at a cost comparable to mass produc-
tion emerged successively.

9 Customer Relationship Management

291

9.1.1.2 Examples of Successful CRM Applications
The impressive economic success of customer relationship management can be
seen in the developments of the companies stated here as examples. Some of them
use other catchwords to describe their strategies, but they all base their strategies
strongly on the elements of CRM described here. At the same time, it becomes
apparent that the approaches can be very different. This will be discussed in this
section as well:

Satisloh AG Guidance and support for sales reps of a typical machinery and
equipment manufacturer using a mobile sales information system, not only
facilitating more efﬁcient preparation and reviewing of customer visits but also
serving as aids for sales talks with IT-supported product conﬁgurators. Offers are
put together to meet the customer’s needs during consultations. The strategic goals
of the supplier’s business relationship management are taken into consideration,
e.g. in regard to individual goals with the customer or special conditions (Weidner
2007).

Audi AG CRM as a component of decided campaign management in which
e.g. customers considered relevant and attractive are targeted for involvement
when a new vehicle is introduced. Selected customers are invited to special events
before the vehicle is launched and are kept updated throughout the course of the
campaign. CRM includes not only supplier measures,
it also coordinates
corresponding dealer activities.

Last.fm Internet radio services such as Last.fm and, as bandwidth increases, other
internet-based media offerings (like tape.tv or Putpat), especially for movies, take
advantage of forming “afﬁnity groups.” Based on the music, clip and/or movie
preferences they have demonstrated as well on their observed digital behavior,
customers are assigned to groups of persons with similar traits. This information
can be used very successfully e.g. to customize the core offering and utilize “cross-
selling” or “up-selling” potentials, and it can be used for targeted communication
policy and use of data by third parties. The following explanations will expand
on this.

Amazon Largest E-commerce company in the world (by revenue). The company
expanded its original assortment of books and media long ago and now offers a
nearly complete range of products through mail-order (incl. furniture, fashion and
food). It also has marketplace and community functionalities. Recommendations
from other customers based on their past purchases (e.g. verbal recommendations
“Customers who bought this item also bought. . .” or star ratings and comment/blog
functionalities) are particularly well known. This is only the use of customer data
that is perceived by the customers. Amazon actually applies a broad range of the
CRM potentials described here.

292

M. Gersch

Otto Rapid growth to become second-largest E-commerce company in the world
(by revenue). The company took central approaches formerly used in traditional
business models and consistently adapted them to new technologies. These
approaches include the analysis of multi-channel customers who are especially
economically attractive as well as the formation of customer afﬁnity groups on the
basis of behavior data—generated from various online and ofﬂine contact
channels—relevant to purchasing and used in an appropriate combination.

Google, Facebook & Co Wide-ranging collection and subsequent linking of
differentiated personal master data and usage data on the most varied applications
and services. This forms the foundation for differentiated user proﬁles. One use for
these proﬁles is e.g. to offer services tailored to an individual’s needs via the
platforms and, as a non-monetary service in return, to generate microdata on the
persons. The user proﬁles can also form the basis for targeted offerings to third
parties. As Eric Schmidt, CEO of Google stated: “We know more or less who you
are, what you are interested in and who your friends are” Unknown (2010)

To examine the focus of this contribution, the capital goods sector, the
possibilities that CRM offers will be explained using primarily German pharma-
ceutical wholesalers as an example. This industry has been using the information
gained from its central position in the value chain for decades to target its business
relationships with pharmacies. It is important to point out that its core service
(supplying the common assortment
to pharmacies, particularly prescription
medications (Rx)) cannot be digitalized.

9.1.2 Subtasks of CRM

Publications on customer relationship management commonly subdivide the topic
to operative, analytical, strategic and communicative CRM (as examples for others:
(Hilbert 2009; Hippner and Wilde 2008; Hippner 2010; Laudon et al. 2010; Leußer
et al. 2011; Rentzmann et al. 2011). Figure 9.1 provides a systematic overview and
shows the relationships between the subtasks of CRM.

9.1.2.1 Operative Customer Relationship Management
Operative customer relationship management (oCRM) includes all of the operative
support services required to perform business processes related to business rela-
tionship management of a company. These include particularly the following
aspects:

(cid:129) Linkage and coordination of all corporate divisions with customer contact:
Operative CRM is comprised of all areas that, as so-called “front ofﬁce”, have
direct contact with the customer. This typically includes sales and services,
whose activities are in turn usually supported by their own specialized applica-
tion systems (e.g. sales or service information systems). In addition to the

9 Customer Relationship Management

293

Internet E-mail Mailings

Personal 
contact

Tele-
phone

Social 
network

Front
office

Marketing
automation

Sales

automation

Service

automation

OLAP

Data
mining

Customer data

warehouse

Back
office

ERP

systems

...

Accounting
systems

C
R
M

C
o
m
m
u
n
i
c
a
t
i
v
e
 

O
p
e
r
a
t
i

C
R
M

v
e

A
n
a

l

y
t
i

c
a

l
 

C
R
M

S
t
r
a
t
e
g
c
C
R
M

 

i

C
R
M

O
p
e
r
a
t
i

v
e

Fig. 9.1 Subtasks of customer relationship management. Source: Based on Hippner and Wilde
(2008)

(cid:129)

customer-related data generated from the operative business, relevant customer-
related data is usually considered from all of the other direct channels to the
customer (so-called “touch points”). It is already apparent that such customer
contacts generally occur through a wide variety of media, only some of which
are available as digitalized data and capable of integrated application systems.
Integration of customer-related data in a customer data warehouse:
In most CRM application concepts, a so-called customer data warehouse takes
over the central technical functions of mining, aggregating and providing the
data on the individual customers gained from the various business processes and
corporate divisions (Becker and Knackstedet 2011). A data warehouse is a
corporate-wide concept. It is a logically central storage space that provides a
uniform and consistent data base to help specialists and managers from all
relevant divisions and levels in decision making. This data pool is stored and
managed separately from the operative databases (Gabriel et al. 2009).
Separating data analysis from the operative systems ensures that daily business
is not hindered by the vast processing power required for analysis applications
(Hippner et al. 2006). Because of the steep integration challenge (Sect. 9.2.2.1)

294

M. Gersch

and the necessity to overcome technical, syntax, semantic and pragmatic
standards between the application subsystems (Gersch 1998), partially redun-
dant data storage usually has to be accepted (Schelp 2010).

(cid:129) Coordination of all corporate divisions with customer-related data and
linkage to back ofﬁce application systems: In addition to the direct customer
touch points, there are many other corporate processes in which data on individ-
ual customers that may be relevant to business relationship management is
generate or used. Some examples: accounting, with data on individual payment
behavior and payment references; managers, with their personal contacts to the
customer’s employees; and/or logistics and production area, with information on
availability of goods and current production planning. When a comprehensive
CRM approach is applied (Sect. 9.3), these business processes are also tied into
the CRM concept. To avoided isolated solutions, the CRM system has to be
linked to the company’s central back ofﬁce application as well (Helmke
et al. 2008). Depending on the company’s IT system architecture, these are
usually ERP (enterprise resource planning) systems, production planning and
control systems (especially in the manufacturing industry) and/or inventory
control systems (retail) (Mertens 2009).

9.1.2.2 Analytical Customer Relationship Management
Analytical customer relationship management (aCRM) uses the data aggregated in
oCRM and evaluates them in regard to speciﬁc problems and decisions. Ideally, the
fundamental ideas of a continuous learning process can be realized with the aid of
technical support (Hippner et al. 2006), a process coined “learning relationship” by
Peppers and Rogers back in 1997. Because of the rapid technological development
described earlier, there has been a dramatic increase since the beginning of this
century in the fundamental options of collecting and analytically preparing
microdata. Especially “cloud computing” as well as “in-memory” opportunities
make technical (not organizational and/or legal!) performance and capacity
restrictions virtually obsolete (Laudon et al. 2010).

In addition to the creation of standard reports for specialists and managers in
customer relationship management mentioned earlier, “KDD” or “data mining” and
“OLAP” applications are used for aCRM to generate information relevant to
problem solving and decision making from the data stock of the customer data
warehouse.

KDD stands for “knowledge discovery in databases” and designates the pro-
cess required to detect previously unknown and potentially useful correlations in
large quantities of data (Du¨sing 2010). Data mining is often interpreted as a step in
comprehensive KDD, which includes the entire process as well the preparation and
evaluation of data (Gluchowski et al. 2008). Data mining in this interpretation
focuses completely on the actual discovery of previously unknown structures and
correlations, using selected analysis methods that will be referred to later
(Sect. 9.1.1.2).

On-line analytical processing (OLAP) is a software technology based on multi-
intended to grant specialists and managers quick,

dimensional data stock,

9 Customer Relationship Management

295

interactive and diverse access to relevant and consistent data (Gabriel et al. 2009). It
is usually made up of relevant gages and performance indicators (e.g. sales, reve-
nue, costs, contribution margins, market shares, regions, etc.) that are prepared and
presented as a multi-dimensional data cube. Following these dimensions, the gages
can—depending on the question/issue—be drilled down or rolled up, diced or
sliced (Chamoni 1998; Hippner et al. 2006; Hippner and Wilde 2008). The empha-
sis is on dynamic and multi-dimensional analyses of historical and consolidated
data stocks, which are especially well suited to verifying a priori hypotheses. The
user interfaces, operated intuitively, are a particularly useful feature that enables
management
data warehouse
applications—to access various data sources within the company and outside of
it. OLAP tools often tempt users to perform ad hoc analyses of speciﬁc problems. In
contrast to tabular, statistical standard reporting, these analyses facilitate “playful”
discoveries, speciﬁcation and tracing of abnormalities and spontaneous questions
(Hippner and Wilde 2008). When experienced users can interactively modify
hypotheses with an OLAP system, the available multi-dimensional complexity
quickly exceeds the limits of intuitive perception. This manual search for
correlations should ideally be supplemented with the systematic discovery of new
correlations in the course of data mining.

departments—usually

via

and

technical

9.1.2.3 Strategic Customer Relationship Management (sCRM)
Applying the ﬁndings gained through aCRM, it is the job of strategic customer
relationship management to make fundamental decisions related to business rela-
tionship management (Chaps. 4 and 5) and to then monitor its effect over time,
making adjustments as necessary. Depending on where sCRM is anchored in the
corporation, it can include particularly the following tasks:

(cid:129) Continuous analysis and, when necessary, moving business relationship man-

agement to a different part of the organization (reﬂection/meta level).

(cid:129) Formation, analysis, prioritization and selection of customers (or customer

groups) deemed relevant.

(cid:129) Formulation and speciﬁcation of individual goals for each prioritized business

relationship or each differentiated type of business relationship.

(cid:129) Decision on individual constellation of business relationships and realized
offerings, on business processes (Merzenich et al. 2011), on conditions and,
when appropriate, on investments in the business relationships that affect multi-
ple transactions.

(cid:129) Coordination with other areas to create the organizational and technical
conditions needed for efﬁcient realization of individual business relationships
(e.g. modular strategies or principles of mass customization).

(cid:129) Decision on performing special actions related to business relationship manage-
ment. These can include e.g. campaigns to acquire new customers with certain
qualities, reactivation of “dormant business relationships” or active reclaiming
of lost customers.

296

M. Gersch

9.1.2.4 Communicative Customer Relationship Management
Communicative CRM (cCRM) implements both internal and external communica-
tion in business relationship management. With internal communication, it is
essential to ensure that not only the data needed is extracted but that all of the
decisions made in the course of sCRM can be applied again to all operative
implementations. So the persons responsible for performing single tasks must
have the proper speciﬁcations with regard to the overall customer-related strategy.
This means for example that the speciﬁcations created e.g. for offerings or price
conditions have to be effective for each customer at the customer touch points
(e.g. sales reps or call center) as well as in the production plant. When a customer
contacts the call center, these individual speciﬁcations must be applied just as they
are in preparing personal conversations at different levels of the corporate hierarchy
or in more or less generously handling a complaint in the service area.

External communication focuses primarily on coordination and agreement of
communication of the individuals responsible for tasks and functions related to the
customer. Decisions made as part of sCRM must be implemented as coordinated
and agreed behavior by those responsible for tasks and functions, ensuring that,
from the customer’s view point, the supplier’s overall communication is coherent
and consistent.

Figure 9.2 gives an overview of the complex tasks of customer relationship

management.

9.1.3 Goals of CRM

The main objectives of CRM are the utilization of new technical ways to support
traditional subtasks of business relationship management. These subtasks can be
characterized as (Gersch 1998):

(cid:129) Analysis and selection of suitable business relationship partners (future, current

and possibly former partners to be reactivated).

(cid:129) Speciﬁc objectives for each separate business relationship
(cid:129) Targeted design of each business relationship
(cid:129) Permanent monitoring and control of the portfolio consisting of all business

relationships but also of each individual relationship.

From an economic point of view, customer relationship management and the
inherent customization of offerings have no intrinsic value. The central approaches
are selective customer loyalty, securing or even increasing revenue, and improving
the efﬁciency of activities required for this purpose (Gersch 1998). A differentiated
performance analysis, often attempted with simpliﬁed cost-beneﬁt analysis, should
serve as a benchmark. This is typically intended to prove that the beneﬁt generated
by customer relationship management justiﬁes the incurred costs (Chap. 4. To ﬁnd
out more about the fundamental problems of performance analysis of CRM
applications, refer to Sect. 9.2.2.2).

9 Customer Relationship Management

297

Areas of responsibility of comprehensive CRM systems

Operative 
BRM*

Analytical 
BRM
BR controlling

Acquisition

• External 

customer data

(cid:129) Customer touch 

points

(cid:129) Customer-

related 
processes

Storage

(cid:129) Data 

warehouse

Control 
and speci-
fications

Use

(cid:129) Customer contact 

points

(cid:129) Customer-

related 
processes

...

...

Strategic BRM

(cid:129) Controlling 
BR portfolio

(cid:129) BR contribution 

margins

(cid:129) Analysis, planning BR

Customer profiling

*Analysis of purch. behavioooo
*Analysis of purch. behavior
*Analysis of infoff . behavior
*Analysis of info. behavior

(cid:129) Key account 
management

(cid:129) Definition of 

offering by BR 
cluster

Segmentation
(cid:129) Cluster formation
(cid:129) Cluster analysis

Types of information

Customer data
(cid:129) Name, address, ...
(cid:129) Customer's 

information behavior

(cid:129) BR history
(cid:129) Customer interests
(cid:129) Customer payment 

behavior

(cid:129) Customer 
complaints

(cid:129) BR contribution 

margin

Target group data
(cid:129) BR cluster
(cid:129) Cluster 

contribution 
margin

(cid:129) Cluster profile
(cid:129) CL interests
(cid:129) C payment 

behavior

(cid:129) CL complaints

BRM control data
(cid:129) Offerings by BR
(cid:129) BR credit lines
(cid:129) BR process 
descriptions

(cid:129) BR customer 

contact 
descriptions

* Business Relationship Management

Fig. 9.2 Tasks of customer relationship management

Beneﬁts of CRM are generally considered to be a selective increase in customer
loyalty on the part of customers considered to be economically attractive as well as
the chance to secure or even increase revenue. The aspects related to revenue are
usually assumed to be associated with greater price willingness of the purchaser for
customized bundled services, falling price elasticity for the customer over the
course of the business relationship and/or an increase in the proportion of the
supplier’s revenue generated by customer spending (by concentrating the
purchaser’s procurement within one of the supplier’s categories (potential for
intensiﬁcation) as well as by so-called “cross selling” or “up-selling”, Hippner
2006; Laudon et al. 2010). If it is not possible to express this information as
absolute values (for
information on problems of cross-selling/cross-buying
analyses, refer to Rese et al. 2008), an attempt is usually made to compare the
assumed revenue developments without CRM measures as part of considerations on
opportunism. Indirect beneﬁt effects of single purchasers are emphasized as
increasing customer value in addition to these direct revenue effects (Gu¨nter and
Helm 2011; Hippner 2006). Indirect effects include particularly the reference
potential, e.g. of opinion leaders in attractive purchaser segments, the information
potential of typical customers, including lead users (Hippel 1986; Kleinaltenkamp

298

M. Gersch

and Dahlke 2006), and the potential for cooperation (e.g. access to lacking
resources and/or personal networks, Gu¨nter 2006).

In regard to the costs of CRM, the expense incurred to create the infrastructure
required, the additional costs resulting from collection, analysis and evaluation of
data, any customization of service creation and the offering are all considered to
contribute to increasing costs (for more on overhead and costs attributed to individ-
ual customers, refer to Reckenfelderba¨umer and Welling 2006). In contrast, CRM
also has effects that reduce costs, e.g. more efﬁcient communication processes, less
scatter loss or potential outsourcing to regular customers of partial services
provided by the supplier.

The information technology developments explained in Sect. 9.1.1 and the
resulting changes in the basic conditions and the constellation options lead to the
assumption that there are positive effects on both the beneﬁt aspects and cost
aspects. It is becoming increasingly interesting economically for more and more
companies to investigate the potential uses of customer relationship management
for their scope of activities, even in cases in which their former circumstances made
it appear the CRM was not a promising course of action for them.

So the generally worded objectives of CRM are becoming a strategic option
worth considering for more and more suppliers. The fundamental goals of CRM
outlined here—depending on the basic conditions and the strategic direction of
CRM—are speciﬁed in coordinated subordinate targets of customer relationship
management. These targets relate e.g. to the following aspects:

(cid:129) Long-term commitment of proﬁtable customers or establishment and reinforce-
ment of proﬁtable customer relationships. The means to an end here is primarily
to secure adequate customer satisfaction of the current and future customers
deemed attractive (Hippner 2006, 2010; Hippner and Wilde 2008), the second-
ary intention being targeted design of additional loyalty factors (e.g. legal,
technological or psychological loyalty elements) (Gersch 1998).

(cid:129) Reclaiming and reinforcing former customer relationships that are assumed to be

potentially proﬁtable in the long term (Helmke et al. 2008).

(cid:129) Typical subordinate goals for individual subtasks of CRM (Sexauer and Wellner

2008):
– Improvement of customer selection
– Addressing individual customer requests
– Rationalization of in-house sales department and sales reps, possibly with

simultaneous

– Focus on and improved coordination of communication and sales activities
– Effective and more efﬁcient order processing (as well as other sub-processes
of customer care and sales activities) by liberation from and/or automation of
administrative routines

– Early detection of potentially attractive new customers or of “dwindling” or

“broken off” business relationships.

9 Customer Relationship Management

299

9.2

CRM at a Crossroads?!

9.2.1 CRM Euphoria and Disenchantment in Practice

Beginning in the mid-1990s customer relationship management became a real
fashion trend in both scientiﬁc literature (especially in the marketing ﬁeld and
then later in information systems) and in actual practice. In retrospect, it can be
labeled downright “CRM euphoria.” It was one of the few IT-related topics that
captured the attention of the highest tiers of management.

Actual practical experience, a wealth of reports from corporations and relevant
empirical studies all show that a certain disillusionment has begun to set in (Helmke
et al. 2008; Schaller et al. 2006; Sexauer and Wellner 2008). Besides the many
detailed reports, the following aspects have proven to be primary sources of this
disenchantment:

(cid:129) Unrealistic expectations as to the potential beneﬁts, along with inadequate
consistency and focus on goals related to planning and realization of CRM
implementation suited to the respective company.

(cid:129) Underestimated complexity of CRM implementations, particularly regarding
instating the technical, organizational and HR requirements for an “integrated
CRM concept” to be able to achieve the desired effects.

(cid:129) Difﬁculty of creating an adequately discriminating performance analysis of
CRM plans such that it actually inﬂuences the behavior of those responsible
for decision making.

Before we talk about CRM scenarios that can realistically be implemented in

Sect. 9.3, the following sections will examine these challenges.

9.2.2 (Unrealistic) Expectations Versus Underestimated

Prerequisites for CRM

9.2.2.1 Underestimated Prerequisites for Integrated CRM Systems
The initial description of customer relationship management emphasized that it is
an “integrated concept” and an “integrated information system” (Laudon
et al. 2010; Leußer et al. 2011), which becomes apparent after learning about the
subtasks of CRM, particularly aCRM. Integration always has technical implications
as well as organizational and HR-related implications that are at least sometimes
relevant.

The technical aspects of integration can be vastly simpliﬁed by differentiating
between “connectivity” as a fundamental requirement for linking information
systems and different degrees of “compatibility”; together they form the basic
prerequisite for potential manifestations of integration (Gabriel et al. 2002; Mertens
2009; Weiber and Zu¨hlke 2005). In very general
integration means
connecting people, tasks and possibly technology to form a coherent whole, with

terms,

300

M. Gersch

Requirements for (inter-organizational) cross-linking and integration 

Agreements must be made at different levels for system 
communication and integration 

t
n
e
m
e
e
r
g
a
 
c
i
f
i
c
e
p
S

t

n
e
m
e
e
r
g
a

 
c
i
f
i
c
e
p
S

l

o
r
t
n
o
c
 
w
o

L
M
X
+

 

 
t

e
n
r
e

t

n

I

I

D
E

l
f
k
r
o
w
+

 

 
I

 

A
E
+
A
O
S

 

6) Subtasks and business processes

5) Application systems

4) Data management

3) Data exchange formats

(cid:129) Coordinated subtasks and 

business processes as 
consequences of action

(cid:129) Pragmatic level of coinciding 

sequences 
in application systems

(cid:129) Semantic level, e.g. 

product classification; 
customer attributes

(cid:129) Syntax level, e.g. 

EDIFACT, XML

2) Transmission services/standards

(cid:129) e.g. X.400, TCP/IP,  FTP

1) Transport networks and hardware 
compatibility

(cid:129) Layer 1 - 4 in the ISO OSI 

concept

i

n
t
e
g
r
a
t
i
o
n

R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
 
f
o
r
 

r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s

C
r
o
s
s
-
l
i

n
k
i
n
g

Fig. 9.3 Prerequisite for cross-linking and integration. Source: Based on Gersch (1998) and
Weiber and Zu¨hlke (2005)

the intention of combating the functional, process and departmental limitations
resulting from division of labor and specialization (Laudon et al. 2010). Mertens
(2009) claims that there are several dimensions to integration (based e.g. on the
object of integration (data, functions, objects, processes, methods, programs), the
direction of integration (vertical, horizontal, lateral) or the extent of integration
(division, covering multiple functions or processes,
internal or between
companies). Cross-linking in this case means only the technical, physical link
between different members of the organization, organizational units and the respec-
tive application systems used, with the objective of working in a coordinated and
cooperative manner (e.g. as a network for sharing data). Integration is the
subsequent coordination and possibly merging of technical systems, processes,
structures and tasks between the various members and units of an organization
and/or organizations. Beyond the predominantly technical aspects of networks, the
syntax, semantics and pragmatic levels of compatibility are essential for integration
to actually work (detailed information on integration: Gabriel et al. 2002; Gabriel
and Beier 2003; Mertens 2009); for the syntax, semantics and pragmatic level of
compatibility, especially Gersch (1998) and Fig. 9.3.

(cid:129) The syntax level of compatibility addresses the physical nature of characters and
their identiﬁcation as data in the semiotic sense. This is usually assured by using
formats like HTML, XML or EDIFACT to exchange data.

(cid:129) The semantic level of compatibility speciﬁes the unequivocal deﬁnition of the
contents and meanings of characters and messages as the central task of data

9 Customer Relationship Management

301

management. It is important that terms such as “customer net price” and
“customer value” always have exactly the same contents and deﬁnitions.

(cid:129) The pragmatic level of compatibility deals with the coordination of action and
reaction patterns as compatible business processes that can be consistently or
sporadically supported by IT-based application systems.

When it comes to organizational aspects of integration, the following aspects are
typically relevant particularly for operative CRM (similar to Hippner et al. 2006;
Hippner 2010; Laudon et al. 2010):

(cid:129) Multitude of touch points to customers with the need to be synchronized and

supported.

(cid:129) Multitude of contact partners, contact media and interaction channels to the
customer to be integrated, usually through several functions, departments and
different persons.
IT-based information systems often only partially support these touch points,
accrued customer data and the resulting customer histories.

(cid:129)

(cid:129) When customer contacts and customer-related processes are already supported
digitally, it is usually with different information systems that are frequently not
linked and are surely not integrated.

Sexauer (2001) was one of the ﬁrst to focus on the HR aspects of integration.
All of the technical and organizational measures can only create the conditions to
provide an implemented CRM system that serves as a tool for the functionaries and
decision makers. The central aspect of success is the acceptance of the CRM
implications for the respective tasks and functions, especially when costs and
beneﬁts seem to be distributed unevenly amongst the functional areas. Depending
on the CRM concept, this can affect not only operative tasks perceived as “pointless
extra work” but can also cause detachment from the accustomed goals,—often
focused on individual functions or tasks—processes and routines for achieving
these goals (e.g. changing incentive payments in sales from “number of new
contracts” to differentiated CRM subordinate targets, such as “number of new
contracts with customers with certain properties,” “compiling and maintaining
customer data also available to other divisions”). So it has proven crucial to success
to frame the essential change in behavior with a suitable CRM implementation
strategy, consisting e.g. of appropriate training and informational measures, modi-
ﬁcation of the incentive systems in compliance with clearly deﬁned CRM subordi-
nate goals (as speciﬁcation of a CRM target pyramid) and clear and concise
descriptions of tasks and processes.

To meet the demand for implementation of the fully “integrated CRM informa-
tion system”—a demand that is easy to put into words but difﬁcult to comprehen-
sively and consistently meet—there are many conceivable solutions, all of which
require a wide range of conditions and substantial investments before the CRM idea
can be thoroughly put into practice and integrated, whereby it is supported by IT:

302

M. Gersch

(cid:129) CRM as a function in a central system: implementation of the required CRM
functionalities in a central IT system (e.g. ERP or management information
system) used by all relevant departments and functionaries.

(cid:129) CRM as a supplemental module: addition to a company’s existing infrastructure—
which has usually grown successively and is heterogeneous—initially as an
autonomous CRM module, consisting of a customer data warehouse and being
integrated into the existing IT landscape via import and export interfaces (over-
view of 63 CRM software solutions, (Hippner et al. 2009).

As explained in detail in Sect. 9.3, “selective or focused CRM applications” are
most common right now. These applications concentrate on (sometimes only at
ﬁrst) selected functions and application systems, not lastly because it has been
revealed that the technical and organizational requirements for realizing a compre-
hensive and integrated CRM system demand investments and modiﬁcation projects
that are nearly impossible to quantify—and even rough estimates are of an amount
that is unacceptable in relation to the anticipated beneﬁts. Especially established
companies with an IT system and process landscape that has grown over many
years and is typically heterogeneous tend to choose the route of focused implemen-
tation of a CRM strategy, possibly combining it with a successive migration
strategy when replacement investments are required, thus expanding CRM integra-
tion step by step.

9.2.2.2 Problems Associated with CRM Performance Analysis
As with all courses of action, customer relationship management and the associated
investments are subject to performance analysis. The performance analysis is
initially an evaluation/forecast of future effects, and as implementation progresses,
it
increasingly takes on the character of speciﬁc targets and inspection
speciﬁcations. The special problems of CRM performance analysis are explained
here on the basis of the general discussion with respect to information systems
(Arens 2004; Gersch 1998; Schumann 1992, 1993; Uebel 2008):

(cid:129) Multi-dimensionality of goals:

As the discussion of the goals of CRM in Sect. 9.1.3 revealed, CRM approaches
typically pursue not just a single goal but several at the same time. It is not at
all necessary that the various goals be equally relevant. No performance
analysis can ever thoroughly consider all objectives—and surely not when
there are multiple objectives with different weighting.

(cid:129) Gage problems with systemization of economic effects:

One pivotal problem is ﬁnding a suitable indicator (or multiple indicators) that
enables unequivocal comparison or modiﬁcation of the efﬁciency of alterna-
tive courses of action and constellation alternatives. Although at ﬁrst glance it
may seem sensible to choose revenue and costs as the relevant indicators, it
quickly becomes apparent that neither on the cost side nor the revenue side
can all effects of CRM be unequivocally compiled. Furthermore, the respec-
tive cost and revenue classiﬁcations are speciﬁc to each company and are

9 Customer Relationship Management

303

subject to interpretation (Uebel 2008). And it also wouldn’t be possible to
classify all of the relevant effects by cost and revenue. There are typically
several effects to be recorded only qualitatively (such as resulting ﬂexibility,
greater market transparency, faster decision making, etc.) but that should at
least be considered as complements.

(cid:129) Abstraction of situational and individual inﬂuencing factors on CRM effects

To substantiate the performance analysis, it has to be embedded in the speciﬁc
situational circumstances of an individual company. On the other hand,
comparison over a period of time and/or of multiple participants requires a
certain degree of generalization. With the complexity of CRM concepts it
comes as no surprise that controversy comes up again and again as to whether
the measured or assumed effects in individual cases can be attributed to
certain basic conditions. If this were the case, it would make a sweeping
generalization impossible, speciﬁcally in regard to detailed ﬁndings. The
challenge here is to choose an abstraction level that seems appropriate.

(cid:129)

(Lack of) consideration of linkage and integration effects:
The challenge, closely related to the previous point, is that CRM applications are
typically realized by different functional areas, departments, procedures and
IT subsystems, each contributing its part from the division of labor. A suitable
excerpt must be chosen for the performance analysis and the comparison of
beneﬁts of courses of action performed for this excerpt. Established func-
tional, departmental or IT system limitations are typically applied, and
available basic information (e.g. from accounting/controlling) is taken into
consideration as well. It happens regularly that reciprocal effects have to be
ignored, between segments examined separately as well as between
subsystems considered and not considered in the analysis.
(cid:129) Observance of beneﬁt effects distributed geographically,

time-wise and/or

institutionally:
Both positive and negative effects of potential CRM implementations typically
occur at different times and are sometimes delayed. Seen from the cost side,
this can be considered by factoring in one-time and current expenses
(e.g. total cost of ownership with CRM systems, Laudon et al. 2010), but it
is much more difﬁcult e.g. when the resulting revenue is considered. In this
context it is important to emphasize that the success of CRM can be observed
only over the mid to long term (Hippner 2006). Which revenue effects are
implied and which proportion is attributed to a CRM system? The
ramiﬁcations can be seen in different locations and throughout the institution,
which in turn leads to identiﬁcation, evaluation and attribution problems. If
advantages and disadvantages become apparent in different areas of authority
(possibly at different times and with the attribution problems described), this
will usually lead to analyses being discussed with a great deal of controversy.

(cid:129) Uncertainty and innovation problems:

It must be kept in mind that CRM systems, like all information systems, have no
objective, ex ante speciﬁable value (Picot et al. 2003; Uebel 2008). This
means that really only speciﬁc implementations of CRM systems have effects

304

M. Gersch

that can be compared, or hypothetical scenarios and those based extensively
on assumptions have to be accepted. Then there is grave uncertainty about the
actual occurrence of assumed effects as well as about the actual development
of assumed conditions or the occurrence of surprises. This problem becomes
even more critical with innovative implementations of CRM systems that are
not “only” substitutive improvement of existing processes, structures and
services but actually form and justify new ones. The limitations of attempting
to quantify potential effects quickly become apparent, and it can be claimed
that actual uncertainty is concealed by “pseudo-precision”. On the other hand,
competing project proposals will in practice have to consider comparison
ﬁgures/indicators
internal
discounting, project contribution margin or ROI).

(depending on the method applied,

e.g.

(cid:129) Necessity of comprehensive consideration and solution of attribution problems:
As already mentioned, CRM implementations are not restricted to technical
realizations,
they also require organizational and HR changes and
adjustments. So performance analysis may not single out isolated aspects. It
is, however, always difﬁcult to determine the limits of causality, which
effects can and should be attributed to the individual CRM concept.
Expanding the analysis meets the demands for comprehensiveness, but at
the same time the analysis effort, the unavoidable uncertainty of prognoses
and the attribution problems increase dramatically.

In light of the challenges only hinted at here as well as the impossibility of
“correct and complete” evaluation of the efﬁciency of CRM implementations,
the following impressions—apparent in the evaluation of relevant publications
as well as in observations and empirical studies of actual practice—are not
surprising:

(cid:129) Diversity and contention of methods:

In accordance with the fundamental alternatives of analyzing the performance of
IT systems, all conceivable manifestations and combinations of methods
come up in discussions of CRM systems (Gersch 1998; Schumann 1992,
1993). These methods range from procedures for determining the effects
(including cost-beneﬁt analyses, process analyses, efﬁciency chains) and
one-dimensional or multi-dimensional methods to economically assess the
conjectured ramiﬁcations (such as investment appraisals, full-cost accounting
and marginal costing, process cost accounting as well as scoring models,
efﬁciency analyses and comparison of arguments and potential, Reckenfel-
derba¨umer and Welling 2006) to more complex combined methods (Uebel
2008) that sometimes include different methods to determine uncertainty
(such as sensitivity analyses, probability calculations, scenario technique).
Brilliant controversial discussions on the “correctness” of the method chosen
in comparison to other methods can ensue.

(cid:129) Decisions having to be made with minimal information on the inherent risks and

a tendency towards limited CRM implementations:
In light of the complexity of comprehensive CRM concepts and the problems
related to analyzing their proﬁtability, it comes as no surprise that, because of

9 Customer Relationship Management

305

the unavoidable errors, simple procedures with a marked tendency toward
aggregation are commonly used (Laudon et al. 2010; Sexauer and Wellner
2008). Examples of parameters used include: number of repeat purchasers,
cost per customer service call, reduction in customers changing to other
suppliers or various conversion rates, e.g. in the sense of interested parties
becoming purchasers and then repeat purchasers. Sometimes an explicit
methodical examination is omitted and the “convictions” of top management
tip the scale. Since this, too, requires justiﬁcation, the tendency becomes
stronger to implement isolated CRM applications that can be realized with a
relatively low budget, because performance analysis methods that can be
easily substantiated (e.g. ROI) seem easy to justify. This effect tends to
become stronger when middle management of a company is responsible to
top management for CRM projects.

(cid:129) Disenchantment and CRM disappointment:

The actual results often come as a surprise. They are perceived as much more
negative, which can usually be attributed to originally optimistic
assumptions, underestimated complexity or a limited analysis environment.
This lead to the premature yet bold judgment that CRM usually does not meet
expectations. (Laudon et al. 2010; Schaller et al. 2006).

9.3

CRM Development Scenarios

Simply put, there are two potential scenarios for the development of CRM that
simultaneously systematize the courses of actions for companies considering CRM
as a new strategic option:

(cid:129) Focus on subtasks deemed realistic: companies begin the implementation of
CRM with single, clearly deﬁned subtasks. Hippner et al. (2006) refer to this as
“selective CRM systems” as opposed to “integrative CRM systems”.

(cid:129) Realization of comprehensively integrated CRM concepts that serve as a consis-
tent anchor for the corporate strategy and integrate all relevant subtasks and
functional areas to the greatest extent possible.

9.3.1 CRM Development Scenario 1: Focus on Realistic Subtasks

9.3.1.1 Examples of Selective CRM Applications
The wealth of selective CRM applications described in publications and observed
in actual practice (Weidner 2007) can be categorized by different aspects by
focusing on the subtasks. They can be categorized e.g. by:

(cid:129) Phases of the customer life cycle: CRM concepts can focus on single subtasks
over the course of the so-called customer life cycle (Hippner 2006; Hippner and
Wilde 2008; Wimmer and Go¨b 2006). These include e.g.
systematic

306

M. Gersch

management of interests during the “initiation phase” of a business relationship
or revitalization management
to identify, analyze and rejuvenate business
relationships with economically attractive customers that used to work well.

(cid:129) Marketing instruments: Weiber (2006) differentiates between focusing on the
course of communication, product, distribution and/or pricing policy; he claims
that multiple, combined instruments can also be addressed. These include
e.g. modular design/mass customization strategies as part of pricing policy,
facilitating individual offerings suited to the customer’s needs.

(cid:129) Measures that are part of customer processing: Helmke et al. (2008) distinguish
such measures along the typical phases of customer processing. These include
e.g. concepts for individual customer support during the information phase, all
the way to after-sales service.

(cid:129) Functional areas/corporate departments: Laudon et al. (2010) differentiate
between selective CRM applications by the specialized departments sales,
marketing and customer service. Examples of CRM application are customer
and order management in sales, campaign and event management in marketing,
and customer satisfaction management in customer service.

(cid:129) Technical realization: Selective CRM approaches, often in conjunction with
another systematization criterion, are differentiated by information technologi-
cal aspects in at least two respects:
– Locating CRM functionality in the IT system infrastructure of a company:
CRM implementations here include those as an integral component of funda-
mental back ofﬁce systems (e.g. of ERP or inventory control systems), as
extensions of focused information systems (e.g. existing sales information
systems) or as specialized CRM information systems selectively linked to
established subsystems (Hippner et al. 2009).

– Use of certain techniques to resolve CRM subtasks:

these include
considerations that emphasize e.g.
the potential of multi-dimensional
databases, new data mining methods or convergent, IP-based information
and communication technologies as the basis for so-called customer interac-
tion centers (CIC) to deal with CRM tasks (Hippner et al. 2006).

Because there are so many selective CRM applications, it is fruitless to even
attempt to offer a complete overview. Using a few examples, the main approaches
of typical partial approaches to CRM will be described.

Customer-related Sales Information Systems
These applications are characterized as part of operative and analytical CRM, often
bearing different names like CAS (computer aided selling), (Sexauer and Wellner
2008), sales automation (Hippner et al. 2006) or SIS (sales information system),
(Laudon et al. 2010). The emphasis is on supporting sales, particularly in efﬁciently
performing the individual tasks associated with managing customer relationships.
The most common applications are related to supporting sales staff in dealing with
administrative, analytical and contact-related tasks before, during and after cus-
tomer contacts (Hippner et al. 2006).

9 Customer Relationship Management

307

The administrative tasks of the SIS include scheduling appointments and
planning routes for sales reps, compiling call reports or consolidating sales
overviews. But effectiveness and efﬁciency can also be increased by simplifying
travel expense claims, maintaining customer data, or target planning and budgeting
individual business relationships. In addition to systematic evaluations in the form
of standard reports, the analytical tasks of the SIS with increasing frequency
include OLAP applications that help sales staff with ﬂexible and problem-oriented
analyses to prepare for and follow up customer contacts. Some of the standard
analyses are: “lost order analyses” (analysis of all activities/offers that did not result
in a contract), “sales cycle analyses” (analysis of purchasing histories and notation
of replacement times in order to facilitate proactive approach) and “sleeping
relationship analyses” (analysis of formerly active business relationships in regard
to the causes of absent/declining subsequent transactions). The contact-related
tasks of SIS are functionalities that support planning and execution of the actual
customer contacts. These include e.g. electronic product catalogs, possibly with
argument and conﬁguration aids for customized offerings (sometimes based on
experiences with customers of the same purchaser type or on the saved and assessed
purchasing history of the speciﬁc customer) or conversation guidelines that help
steer the content and course of phone calls with customers. Also refer to the
implementation achieved by Satisloh AG, a supplier from the machinery and
equipment manufacturing sector. With its mobile SIS, the company provided its
sales reps with product conﬁgurators for use during sales talks.

Form a technical viewpoint,

integrated OLAP applications as well as
combinations of different stationary and mobile terminals hold great potential for
supporting sales reps in their work. And they are also an ideal way to improve
coordination between sales reps and in-house staff and to mesh sales with other
functional areas of the company.

A good example of strategies efﬁciently enabled by focused CRM application is
so-called campaign management, in which several areas of responsibility (partic-
ularly marketing and sales) coordinate their actions (here and later: Hippner
et al. 2006). The emphasis is on presenting to the right customer the right informa-
tion and offering, in the right communication style, through the right communica-
tion channels at the right time in the course of the business relationship. Sales
becomes part of comprehensive campaign planning, campaign control and cam-
paign evaluation.

(cid:129) Campaign planning: This includes especially: deﬁning the goal of the cam-
paign (e.g. increasing the revenue generated by regular customers by cross-
selling or up-selling, reviving “dormant” business relationships), selecting the
target group and specifying relevant selection criteria, combining communica-
tion channels as best suited to a certain type of customer or even to a speciﬁc
customer, and clearly deﬁning the campaign process. This ensures that each
person responsible for a task is assigned unequivocal responsibility and
speciﬁcations for single sub-processes.

308

M. Gersch

(cid:129) Campaign control: Usually with the aid of a campaign management system,
previously planned sequences of actions are triggered and their implementation
controlled in a coordinated manner as speciﬁed by the criteria/indicators dictated
during campaign planning. These include alternative contact sequence planning
and communication rules. Without the proper campaign rules, complex, multi-
level campaigns would not be controllable and would lead to inconsistencies and
irritation from the customer’s point of view. It is also important to watch the
reciprocal effects with other sales measures and campaigns. If the customer is
approached too frequently by different contact persons addressing different
topics, the contact can be perceived as “aggravating” or “too much”. As Weidner
(2007) made clean in the example of Audi AG’s rollout of the Q7, campaign
control can be achieved as a joint effort with cooperation between producers and
dealers; a similar example is the Top Drive system by BMW AG, (Mertens
2009).

(cid:129) Campaign evaluation: Customers’ reactions are comprehensively and system-
atically fed to the customer data warehouse, thus facilitating the basic concept of
“learning business relationships” (Peppers and Rogers 1997). Analysis of differ-
ent alternative contact routes is of particular relevance (does contact initiated by
the sales department trigger research, an inquiry or even an order in the online
shop or call center shortly thereafter?). One goal of the impact study is to
examine the action/reaction consequences to generate information relevant for
action, in regard to continuation and control of the current campaign as well as in
regard to the analysis of individual business relationships and the formation of
customer types with similar reaction patterns. Then via the customer data
warehouse this creates a foundation for future activities.

Data Mining Analyses of Customer-related Data
Data mining applications, considered to be promising new technologies to support
customer relationship management, are a popular topic discussed in detail in
publications and used more and more frequently in practice.

Generally speaking, data mining can be characterized as one of several potential
approaches to data analysis, serving as a particularly good way to discover and
conﬁrm previously unknown information, structures, rules and patterns in large
quantities of “Big Data” (Chamoni et al. 2010; Gluchowski et al. 2008; Hippner
et al. 2011; Laudon et al. 2010; Neckel and Knobloch 2005). This makes data
mining a crucial component of comprehensive concepts such as “business intelli-
gence” (Dittmar and Ossendoth 2010). In regard to CRM, terms can be found such
as “customer intelligence” (Wimmer and Go¨b 2006) or knowledge discovery in
databases (Du¨sing 2010).

In customer relationship management, data mining becomes a part of analytical
CRM. The multi-dimensional data compiled and kept in a customer data warehouse
as part of oCRM forms the starting point for data mining. When the essential quality
requirements are met, data from internal or external sources can be combined
(Neckel and Knobloch 2005); or from of market research and internal corporate
data collection (Wimmer and Go¨b 2006). In contrast to online analytical processing

9 Customer Relationship Management

309

Sample question

Data mining methods
Data mining tasks

"Which products are 
purchased together?"

Association

"Aggregating customers 
with similar purchasing 
behavior"

Segmentation

(formation of groups)

"Classification of customers 
in different classes of credit 
worthiness"

Classification

"What will customers or 
what do customers want to 
pay in the future?"

Outlook

Possible methods

Correlation analysis

Association analysis (e.g. 
shopping cart analysis)

Clustering (e.g. k-means, 
Kohonen network)

Regression analysis

Artificial neuronal networks

Discrimination analysis

Genetic algorithms

Decision trees
Time series analysis (e.g. Box-
Jenkins method)

Data mining is not fundamentally new; it is a combination of existing methods and their 
application to extensive data stocks.

Fig. 9.4 Data mining methods and typical “research” questions. Source: Based on Chamoni
et al. (2010)

(OLAP), data mining does not require prior assumptions and hypotheses regarding
causal correlations to be developed. Identifying these from the data stock is a
central task of data mining. The term “mining” is intended to conjure the image
of panning for gold in vast, unknown quantities of stone and project it onto the
evaluation of large amounts of data (Zerdick et al. 2001).

Data mining applications use commonly known, analytical and statistical
methods that—with expanding technical capacity—can be applied to increasingly
large data quantities, sometimes even automatically. The following fundamental
types of potential problems are particularly relevant as data mining tasks
(Chamoni et al. 2010; Hippner and Wilde 2008):

(cid:129) Association: discovery of correlations/precepts between objects
(cid:129) Formation of groups: revelation of similar patterns or formation of groups with

similar characteristics

(cid:129) Classiﬁcation: allocation of objects to created classes
(cid:129) Outlook: forecast of unknown/future characteristics of objects

Based on the ﬁndings of Chamoni et al. (2010), Fig. 9.4 offers an overview of

typical data mining methods and provides examples of the questions addressed.

In regard to the use of data mining as part of aCRM, the wide range of
conceivable uses is obvious. Two examples will brieﬂy demonstrate this (for
many more detailed examples, refer to Neckel and Knobloch (2005)

310

M. Gersch

Management of Interests Combined with Customer Segmentation
by Behavior Data
When generating contacts to potential customers or selecting inquiries received,
there is a certain “information dilemma” in regard to the goals of business relation-
ship management. Generally no historical, internal data related to transactions can
be available on the potential customer/interests (Haas 2011; Hippner 2010; Weiber
2002). However, the prediction of the conjectured customer value of the potential
customers or interested parties can be greatly improved by forming so-called
“similarity/afﬁnity groups”. The foundation for such groups can be a segmentation
of current customers, using data gathered on their communication and purchase
behavior as well as the customer value manifested over time. Applying the increas-
ing volume of data distinguished throughout the various phases of the customer life
cycle, it may be possible to hypothetically assign new interested parties to a
similarity group with only minimal data available. And as the data availability
increases, e.g. in regard to communication and interaction of a potential or ﬁrst-time
customer, it may be possible to improve the quality of the prediction step by step.
The ﬁndings on typical customer traits gleaned from the similarity groups deemed
attractive can be used to proactively initiate contact, thus acquiring new customers
possessing the traits considered to be promising.

Proactive Recovery Management
The afﬁnity groups described above can help to greatly improve the prospects of
recovery management in business relationships (Hippner 2010; Hippner and Wilde
2008; Neckel and Knobloch 2005; Scho¨ler 2011). In addition to better analysis
methods to examine the selection of which relationships with current/previous
customers would beneﬁt from recovery measures in light of the potential customer
value of this type of customer, the following aspects are also possible as part of
proactive recovery management:

(cid:129) When looking at whether recovery is worthwhile, data gained from comparable
recovery attempts with similar customers can be analyzed and serve as a basis in
deciding how recovery should be approached. The broader the data base avail-
able for this purpose is, the greater is the predictability of implementing recovery
measures that are suited to the type of customer and that increase both efﬁciency
and effectiveness. Analysis of the “cross-selling” and/or “up-selling” potential
(Laudon et al. 2010) of the reclaimed customers can lead to greater intensity and
higher value of the revitalized/renewed business relationships.

(cid:129) Recovery management becomes proactive when indicators hinting at problems
are identiﬁed and continuously observed before a business relationship is broken
off. Then the supplier has the opportunity to intensify/revitalize the relationship
with a customer presumed to be attractive before the relationship can be
terminated. With these data mining approaches, it seems that the technical
possibilities described by Reichheld (1993) are now available to consistently
and actively utilize the relative beneﬁts of managing existing or threatened

9 Customer Relationship Management

311

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

business relationships as opposed to the more common approach of attempting
to generate new customers and new purchases.
In regard to the usefulness of data mining approaches as part of aCRM, the
following aspects are important:
Internal customer data from any number of sources can be supplemented and
combined with external data. However, the quality and relevance of the data
base from oCRM as a basis for aCRM should be critically examined (Hippner
2010; Wimmer and Go¨b 2006).

(cid:129) Data mining is not equally relevant to all aCRM issues and is not always superior
to other analysis methods (Hippner and Wilde 2008; Neckel and Knobloch
2005). Beneﬁts can be divined particularly when large, multi-dimensional data
quantities become available for which there were previously insufﬁcient
conjectures on relevant causal correlations and patterns.

(cid:129) While numerical data has made up the bulk of analysis objects so far, better
methods (e.g. “text mining” are being developed to allow text or other “fuzzy”
data to be considered in potential analyses, Gluchowski et al. 2008).

(cid:129) With increasing digitalization and networking within E-business (Gersch 2010),
the availability of data (digital traces) that users leave at different touch points
and through different activities has exploded. In addition to “web log mining”/
“web usage mining” (Gluchowski et al. 2008), which has been practiced for a
while now, information such as geographic and environmental data of individual
times of use is successively becoming available via mobile terminals. In addi-
tion, web 2.0 applications generate a ﬂood of data that cannot be managed
manually (Laudon et al. 2010). Here, too, extensively automated analysis
approaches promise interesting results, e.g. in regard to usage processes on the
customer side that would not otherwise be detected and in regard to (dis)
satisfaction or suggestions for improvement during use. Successively expanding
the multi-dimensional data base this way promises interesting analysis
possibilities, but is also increases the risk of loss of quality and relevance.

Collaborative Filters as “Automated Learning Relationships”
The process described above of using the available individual purchase and opinion
data to build afﬁnity groups as clusters of heterogeneous customers to form
homogeneous groups is being used more and more frequently in the pricing and
product policies of offerings.
It serves to generate extensively automated
recommendations and to customize the offering. This is discussed in publications
particularly under the terms “recommendation systems” or “collaborative ﬁlters”
(Ansari 2000; Lee and Kwon 2008; Zerdick et al. 2001).

Figure 9.5 outlines the fundamental principle that automates the idea of
“learning relationships” by Peppers and Rogers (1997): “A Learning relationship
(. . .) gets smarter and smarter with every individual interaction. [The one-to-one
enterprise gets experience with each individual customer]”. “Surﬁng the feedback-
loop (. . .) the customer tells the company about certain need, you can ‘look’ at the
customer during the online information/buying process and you can learn from the
customer feedback ((un-)satisfaction, complaints. . .).
. . .Every interaction and

312

M. Gersch

Transaction

Experience

"Feedback 

loop"

Adaptation

Compiling individual purchasing or 
preference patterns of individual 

customers

Customer inquires 

about

and selects 

optimized offers

"Automatic" care 

and analysis 

through 

collaborative filter

Analysis of a customer's 
purchasing/preference 

patterns and allocation to 

an affinity group 

Successive optimization of offering 
based on preferences of relevant 

affinity groups

Fig. 9.5 Collaborative ﬁlters and the “feedback loop”. Source: Based on Zerdick et al. (2001)

modiﬁcation improves your ability to ﬁt your product to the particular customer.
Even if a competitor offers the same type of customization and interaction, the
customer won’t be able to enjoy the same level of convenience without taking the
time to ‘reteach’ the competitor the lessons your company has already learned.”
(Peppers and Rogers 1997, p. 251).

While collaborative ﬁlters and recommendation systems were initially relevant
when supplying completely digitalized offerings (e.g. Last.fm, Putpat, Yahoo,
Google), the approach is being implemented with increasing frequency by suppliers
whose offering core is made up of physical products (e.g. Amazon or Baur Versand
(Weidner 2007). A brief description of each application in speciﬁc offerings
demonstrates the potential of “automated learning relationships”:

Last.fm/Putpat These media suppliers serve as an example for a series of compa-
rable offerings of individualized music (www.last.fm) and music videos (www.
putpat.tv). Once a personal account has been set up, the user states e.g. his ﬁve
favorite groups. This serves as the basis for allocation to afﬁnity groups with a
similar taste in music. Then, for as long as he wants, the user can hear or see pieces
of music that are a “surprise” to him: the selection is put together individually, but
the order cannot be changed. Each piece can be evaluated and/or turned off before it
is over. The more usage and evaluation processes there are, the greater is the
precision of the fundamental formation of afﬁnity groups and of the assignment
of individual users to homogeneous groups with a similar taste in music. So the user
is presented with a series of pieces that are new to him, but they have all received a
positive evaluation from users with a similar taste in music. Because of the high
degree of correlation between taste in music and features relevant to purchase
behavior of other offerings, an “economically interesting” data base emerges. The

9 Customer Relationship Management

313

business system operators use the data e.g. for targeted marketing communication
offers for third-party suppliers and—when legal stipulations permit—sell the data
to other companies.

Amazon/Baur Versand Interested parties and customers can use the personalized
online offerings of dealers by logging in. They are then offered easier use,
accompanying services and other conveniences (e.g. remembering order data,
invoicing after delivery, preferential conditions and “personal recommendations”).
Personalization allows the supplier to individually analyze the behavior “observed”
in regard to individual interaction and transaction processes—including those that
cover multiple touch points and communication channels—and to save any feed-
back, complaints, etc. expressed. Also, the customer’s behavior can be compared to
the sales policy instrument applied by the supplier, leading to higher and higher
precision of individual and especially afﬁnity group-based hypotheses on probable
action and reaction patterns. Suppliers generally use the resulting data base in many
directions. Typical uses include general and/or personal recommendations, which
the customer recognizes as such (“Customers who were interested in this item also
looked at. . .”; “Are you familiar with this item?”). Customers usually do not notice
the successive customization of the offerings. It basically becomes feasible to offer
every customer a customized view of the company’s offerings at different touch
points, including individual conditions. This also successively creates an “econom-
ically valuable” data base that typically forms the origin of addition revenue
streams for the supplier.

Coordination of Customer Touch Points and Interaction Channels
To master all the subtasks that are part of CRM, it is imperative to coordinate the
different ways in which to interact with potential, current and former customers via
the increasing number of touch points and channels. This helps to create as coherent
an image of the customers as possible for the various (partial) functionaries within
the company (one face of the customer), while at the same time achieving coordi-
nated communication with the customer (one face to the customer) (Hippner
et al. 2006; Weidner 2007, applying Vivil’s example).

If in addition to the traditional personal contacts (e.g. branch ofﬁces, service
stations and ﬁeld service) call centers are established to facilitate efﬁcient and
effective telephone contact, these partial approaches—with increasing customiza-
tion of the offering, more complex service offerings and a greater number of touch
points—are no longer sufﬁcient to achieve the described goals of CRM.

Both in publications and in actual practice, so-called customer interaction
centers (CIC) seem to be the reaction that meets the increasing demands for
coordination and interaction. Agreement and coordination of parallel or sequential,
of linked or unlinked, of supplier-initiated or purchaser-initiated interaction at
various touch points is especially important to business systems that typically
have multiple (alternative or combined) contact and sales channels (as well as the
respective multi-channel strategies), (Scho¨gel et al. 2011). Customer interaction

314

M. Gersch

centers are intended to take care of precisely this task as part of operative and
communicative CRM. This applies to supplier strategies that tend to allow the
customer to choose the combination of interaction channels he is comfortable with
as well as to strategies with which the supplier sees himself in a more proactive role
in designing and controlling the business relationship.

Publications emphasize these aspects of customer interaction centers:

(cid:129) Selection and integration of supporting interaction channels:

A supplier has to make a fundamental decision as to which interaction channels
he offers and supports or does not offer and support. In addition to the
traditionally dominant personal touch points, the number of media-supported
interaction channels (e.g.
information
offerings on mobile internet, E-mail, text messaging) is increasing. The
CIC becomes the central place—or at least plays a supporting role—where
interaction with the customer is realized and e.g. documented in the customer
data warehouse.

internet websites, social media,

(cid:129)

Increased efﬁciency and effectiveness through IT-supported functionalities:
The CIC can in principle be the starting point for so-called “outbound
functionalities” (company seeking contact to customer, e.g. as part of sales
or service campaigns) as well as coordinator or body responsible for “inbound
functionalities”
inquiries, making
appointments, ﬁling complaints). The necessity of a coordinated approach
to different alternative or combinable touch points was pointed out in the
IT-based functionalities are increasingly
previous sections.
supporting tasks
(Hippner
et al. 2006), e.g.:

In oCRM,
typical

initiating contact,

for customer

interaction centers,

(customer

e.g.

– Pre-selection of customer inquiries: subsystems such as “computer telephony
integration” (CTI), “interactive voice response” (IVR) or “skill based
routines” (SBR) take care of e.g. sorting inquiries by various topics, replying
to simple requests for information (sometimes programmed), program-
supported compiling of basic information (e.g. master data or job numbers),
capacity-based assignment of inquiries to available CIC agents, also taking
into consideration the respective skills required to solve a problem when
assigning the problem to an agent.

– Support of actual interaction processes: the CIC agents are given not only all
of the required customer-related data (ideally covering the entire customer
history from all contact channels) in prepared/condensed shape (including
linkage to documents that may or may not be relevant, such as invoices,
minutes of meetings or previous inquiries), they can also use e.g. so-called
“scriptings” (conversation guidelines) to help them with speciﬁc discussions.
(cid:129) Reﬂexive CRM with consistent workﬂow planning and continuous tracking of

CIC activities:
The basis for coordinated constellation of customer interaction is typically
workﬂow management systems that facilitate systematic planning (especially
sequencing), analysis and control of required but
typically distributed

9 Customer Relationship Management

315

sub-processes (Laudon et al. 2010). Such systems enable e.g. analysis of
customer interaction center activities (e.g. with continuous analysis of
parameters considered relevant, such as defect rates, length and consequences
of conversations or greater customer satisfaction after customer contact) as
well as deﬁnition and control of escalation paths when certain entry
requirements are met (e.g. unacceptable waiting, angering of A customers).

Particularly the developments in the ﬁeld of customer interaction centers serve
as a good example that focused CRM approaches are a way to effect substantial
improvement. Weidner (2007) reports, for example, that, with the proper strategy,
Vivil was able to achieve substantial operative increases in efﬁciency in its contact
with retailers (e.g. by increasing the net duration of conversation per hour by 20 %,
increasing the qualiﬁed dialing attempts by more than 40 %), (Weidner 2007).

9.3.1.2 Potential Reasons for Successful Focusing
Considering the aspects discussed thus far, the results of empirical studies, some
indicating substantial preponderance of focused CRM applications, come as no
surprise (Gottwald and Karlstetter 2010; Sexauer and Wellner 2008). The empirical
studies reveal the following aspects that explain why selective CRM approaches
focusing on individual subtasks are clearly favored over comprehensive CRM
implementations and are found much more frequently in practical applications.
The causes (especially complexity of CRM implementations, scope of requirements
for integration, fundamental problems of adequately differentiated performance
analysis) discussed repeatedly in the previous chapters are reﬂected here:

(cid:129) Strong leverage for subtasks:

Especially when companies have not considered and implemented any CRM
strategies yet, even revising individual subtasks effects leverage in regard to
potential increases in effectiveness and/or efﬁciency.

(cid:129) Adequate predictability and controllability:

The complexity resulting from subtasks and the potential follow-up costs seem
to the decision maker to be easier to predict and control.

(cid:129) Career boost with “quick wins”:

Closely related is the location of the speciﬁc CRM responsibility, especially at
the level of middle management. The associated obligation to provide justiﬁca-
tion and proof to superiors typically promotes projects for which the economic
success can be more precisely and reliably analyzed. So-called “quick wins”
tend to beneﬁt careers more than complex, comprehensive projects.

(cid:129) Benchmarks and standardized sub-activities as “lessons learned”:

The CRM offering available on the market (especially consulting but also
software products) is based primarily on the vast experience gained from many
single, focused projects. It promises convincing results in the short-term to
mid-term, e.g. by adapting proven business processes or making other organiza-
tional adjustments.

316

M. Gersch

Even though these aspects tend to promote a focused CRM strategy, this should
not be interpreted as a hidden indication that a comprehensive, integrated CRM
strategy would actually be better. Focused approaches can be just the right way to
achieve relatively great improvements, to increase the awareness and acceptance of
CRM strategies and/or to have the courage to introduce a long-term, step-by-step
migration strategy. Particularly the frequently underestimated prerequisites for a
comprehensive CRM concept make an (initially) focused procedure seen reason-
able. The following section demonstrates one of the rare examples of comprehen-
sive CRM strategy implementations.

9.3.2 CRM Development Scenario 2: E-Business as Breakthrough

for Integrative CRM?!

9.3.2.1 Comprehensive Management of “Cross-linked Business

Relationships” Using the German Pharmaceutical Market
as an Example

In contrast to the more focused approaches of selective CRM, there are also
examples in which participants interpret customer relationship management as
the essence of their strategy and attempt to comprehensively realize the described
possibilities of CRM throughout several or even all activity and functional areas in
a coordinated and systematic manner (Helmke et al. 2008).

The special opportunities but also the challenges associated with this will be
explained in this section using the business relationship management practiced for
decades by the pharmaceutical wholesalers on the German pharmaceuticals market.

Structure of the German Pharmaceutical Market
After decades of structural consistency in one of the most strictly regulated
“markets”1 in Germany, the health care reforms that went into effect beginning in
2004 led to the ﬁrst noticeable changes, evident as innovative business models
(e.g. mail order sales of medications, franchise pharmacy systems, blistering
packaging especially for individual patients and/or multi-channel strategies for
integrated supply geared towards target groups) and modiﬁed business systems
(e.g. vertical integration between pharmaceutical wholesalers and pharmacies,

1 The quotation marks used only this once signalize a controversy between practice and science as
to whether, due to the strict regulations of the German mobile pharmaceutical market, this can
even be considered a market in the classic sense. Despite the distinction between e.g. use, product
selection and payment (such as the interaction between patients, physician and health insurance in
the ﬁeld of prescription medications) that is not a common feature of a market and despite strict
regulation of competition between all participants at the various levels of the value-adding process,
the German monopoly commission and others see the pharmaceutical sector as a market with
special features worthy of consideration that has or should have competitive elements (Monopolk-
ommission 2006; Wirtschaftsforschung 2010).

9 Customer Relationship Management

317

Pharmaceutical industry

Pharmaceutical wholesaler

(Mail order / stationary) 

pharmacies

i

i

 

r
e
d
v
o
r
p
e
c
v
r
e
s
 
)
e
v
i
t

a
v
o
n
n

I
(

Patients /
customers

Physicians

Hospital

Government

Government 

health 
insurance

Private 
health 
insurance

Fig. 9.6 Structure of the German pharmaceutical market. Source: Based on Kunz (2001)

direct delivery to pharmacies and sometimes to end users by the pharmaceutical
industry).

The three-level sector structure in Fig. 9.6 shows a value chain, still applicable

today, characterized primarily by the following benchmark data:

(cid:129) Over 1,000 pharmaceutical companies offer about 60,000 medications on the
German market, some of which by German law require a prescription (so-called
Rx products) and/or must be sold in a pharmacy (over-the counter products),
(BPI 2010; Wirtschaftsforschung 2010). Approval for these products follows
regulations that change over time but are all-encompassing, the purpose of the
regulations being to attempt
to meet social challenges (e.g. demographic
developments, ﬁnancial restrictions, medical advances) and political objectives
(such as access for all to the best medical care without direct social discrimina-
tion or fear of lack of care).

(cid:129) Eighteen pharmaceutical wholesalers, some of them nationwide, have taken on a
central mediator function to overcome geographic, time-related, quantitative
(once in a while qualitative) and informational tensions between manufacturing
and use. The so-called “one-stop shops” make deliveries to pharmacies of all of
the products offered (about 120,000, including sideline and peripheral assort-
ment) up to ﬁve times a day. Due to government regulation and phases in of
intensive concentration and pricing out of competitors, the pharmaceutical

318

M. Gersch

wholesalers’ share of value added in Germany fell to 4.9 % (down 0.2 percent-
age points over 2007; refer here and later to: ABDA 2010 (BPI 2010); the other
groups involved were able to achieve the following shares of value added:
pharmaceutical industry 65.2 % (+1.2 percentage points over 2007); government

remained stable at 16 % (value-added tax) and pharmacies 14.9 % ( 1 percent-

age point over 2007). Most of the large pharmaceutical wholesalers are active on
the global market as well and pursue individual European strategies that have to
be adapted to the regulations of the respective national pharmaceutical markets.
In addition to economies of scale in purchasing and logistics,
in many
countries—when the local laws permit—clear vertical integration tendencies
can be detected. The pharmaceutical wholesalers initiate and control particularly
cooperation with pharmacies or even operate so-called “pharmacy chains” as
branch retailers. Because of the “Mehr- und Fremdbesitzverbot” (prohibition on
third-party and multiple ownership of pharmacies in Germany), this is not (yet)
possible in Germany (MKG 2010). This law speciﬁes that a German pharmacy
must be legally and economically an independent entity and (just since the health
care modernization act of 2004) may not operate more than four pharmacies
(main pharmacy and up to three “branch pharmacies”), all located near one
another. Although in 2004–2009 it looked as if the prohibition on third-party and
multiple ownership of pharmacies in Germany could be abolished, a notable
verdict issued by the European Court of Justice in May 2009 conﬁrmed that the
German law was compatible with European competition law (MKG 2010). This
at least delayed the surmised tendency towards “industrialization” of the Ger-
man mobile pharmaceutical market. However, there is still a strong presence—
over 100—of horizontal and vertical forms of cooperation (EPC 2010), fre-
quently involving a pharmaceutical wholesaler.

(cid:129) For the ﬁrst time in decades, in 2009 the number of “public pharmacies”2 in
Germany fell by 54 ( 0.25 %) to 21,548 pharmacies (incl. branch pharmacies,

Apothekenverba¨nde 2009). Since the health care modernization act of 2005
permitted branch pharmacies, their number has risen to 3,224 in 2009. Through
2009, 2,677 permits for mail order pharmacies had been granted (Buse 2010),
only about 2 % of which achieve transaction ﬁgures relevant to the market
(>1,000 shipments/day, (Schloh 2010). This has so far had no effect whatsoever
on the relatively high supply density in Germany of 3,800 inhabitants per
pharmacy (EU 15 average: 5800, EU 25 average: 4400 (Apothekenverba¨nde
2009; Haucap 2010). The total revenue of German pharmacies in 2009 was 39.8
billion € (without VAT). The average revenue of a stationary pharmacy in 2009
was 1.82 million € (VFA 2010), whereby there are vast differences between the
pharmacies in regard to revenue and proﬁtability (55.8 % of pharmacies achieve
revenue of less than 1.5 million €/year; 19.3 % more than 2 million €/year). The

2 Only so-called “public pharmacies,” which sell to consumers and are considered part of the
mobile sector of health care, will be examined here. There are some exclusions to this, e.g. hospital
pharmacies in the stationary sector.

9 Customer Relationship Management

319

pattern over time indicates a shift from smaller pharmacies to pharmacies with
higher revenue (Apothekenverba¨nde 2009). When compared to other industries,
the steady rise in revenue as well as the return on sales can be seen as being much
more attractive than those of other industries. German law dictates that every
licensed pharmacy in Germany (pharmacies with an operating permit pursuant to
}2 of the German pharmacy act) must be able to supply all prescription
medications within a reasonable time. The pharmaceutical wholesalers take
over the critical logistical function of ensuring that the common delivery time
in Germany of only a few hours for over 120,000 potential products is met
(Großhandels 2011). More evident than the absolute quantity are the structural
shifts as a result of mail order pharmacies and other types of pharmacies. These
still have to have a stationary, bricks-and-mortar store that is part of the
mandatory emergency and night duty system. Mail order medications accounted
for about 2.5 % or revenue in 2009, but this ﬁgure is growing at an annual rate of
around 20–25 % per year, primarily in the OTC sector (OTC market share in
2009 approx. 8 % (Buse 2010; Voigt 2009). In addition to mail order sales, the
complex forms of cooperation have promoted the tendency to specialize within
the pharmacy sector. These trends are apparent e.g. in the differentiation of
competition parameters and in the signiﬁcance to revenue of different items in
the assortment. Pharmacy offerings are generally classiﬁed into the areas of Rx
(30. 8 billion € in 2009; Apothekenverba¨nde 2009), OTC (4.7 billion € in 2009;
Apothekenverba¨nde 2009) and the so-called “free choice area” (2.0 billion € in
2009; Apothekenverba¨nde 2009) as well as home care products (1.7 billion € in
2009; Apothekenverba¨nde 2009), all of which can be accompanied and
supplemented by the most varied pharmaceutical services. The free choice
area is limited in Germany to a deﬁned range of “other products normally sold
in pharmacies” (Bundestag 2010). The extent of this range has grown over recent
years, but it is still the subject of intensive and controversial disagreement
between various interest groups. Prescription products traditionally accounted
for 90 % or more of revenue in pharmacies—something that has changed
drastically, depending on the location and strategy of the pharmacies. Some
pharmacy cooperations, e.g. DocMorris (a multi-channel supplier that has been
taken over by the German pharmaceutical wholesaler Celesio and turned to a
franchise concept, or easyApotheke) see their strengths in a consistent focus on
trade strategies from other markets, like category management or establishment
of trademarks and their own brands in the OTC and free choice areas (Voigt
2009). In 2009, the free choice area accounted for 30–45 % of the revenue of
some pharmacies.

It is still common that a pharmacy is supplied by three different pharmaceutical
wholesalers, and the shares of revenue of the three typically differ greatly. The
regular or main supplier bundles approx. 60–70 % of the purchasing volume, the
second supplier 15–20 % and the third up to 10 %. In addition—and, depending on
the strategic orientation of the pharmacy, with increasing signiﬁcance—the
pharmacies maintain business relationships with industrial partners and/or other

320

M. Gersch

wholesalers (especially for the special and free choice range). German pharmaceu-
tical wholesalers have always applied intensive business relationship management
to counter potential exclusion and substitution strategies in their dealings with the
individual pharmacies (Engelhardt and Gersch 1995; Gersch 1998, 1999, 2004).
The great signiﬁcance of digitalization and networking in the value-adding
structures described here is one of the reasons that German pharmaceutical
wholesalers can be considered a pioneer in CRM applications. This will be
explained more in the following section. Because although the German pharma-
ceutical market has it peculiarities, its strategies can be considered exemplary and
interesting for other branches.

CRM Strategies of German Pharmaceutical Wholesalers
As is common with trading companies, computerized inventory control systems in
conjunction with enterprise resource planning (ERP) form the backbone of IT
infrastructures. This is also the case with German pharmaceutical wholesalers.

The great signiﬁcance of the security of the medications supply as well as the
relative planning reliability due to strict regimentation, the margins that can still be
achieved in the market and the favorable organizational and technical requirements
have made the German pharmaceutical market a pioneer in cross-company digita-
lization and networking. Transactions between pharmacies, pharmaceutical
wholesalers and the pharmaceutical industry have been happening with electronic
data exchange (EDA/EDI) online and without human-human or human-machine
interaction (Gersch 1998) for over 30 years now—long before terms like E-business
or E-commerce became popular (Gersch 2010). Computer-supported inventory and
transaction data for each article is available at every step of the value-adding
process, such that—without these terms being actively used in this sector—
concepts discussed in other branches like supply chain management (SCM) or
efﬁcient consumer response (ECR) have been applied for a long time to the special
features of this market and have proven highly effective.

Although this overall performance of the system is unimaginable without phar-
maceutical wholesalers, the wholesalers have feared increasing disintermediation
and re-intermediation for years, primarily regarding economically attractive target
groups and/or products with traditionally and/or future high proﬁt margins. Fur-
thermore, the diverging economic signiﬁcance of individual pharmacies, which has
always been taken into account, is increased by the structural changes mentioned
above, along with greater differentiation and some degree of specialization of the
pharmacies. Pharmaceutical wholesalers have differentiated for many years
between the pharmacies, applying various approaches and instruments of customer
relationship management. Some interesting aspects thereof will be described here
as examples:

aCRM as Strategy Requirement
With a combination of delivery and sales force service, particularly the pharmaceu-
tical wholesalers offering the full product range have a comprehensive and detailed
data base in regard to the individual pharmacies, at least to those with which they

9 Customer Relationship Management

321

have a delivery relationship. This forms the basis of analytical customer relation-
ship management. The customer data warehouse is constantly receiving data on
orders and delivery—precise information on items and exact times, updated daily.
The data is based on individual pharmacies and provides a clear picture of the ﬂow
of goods, indirectly and supplemented by other data sources (e.g. sales information
system), as well as of cost and revenue ﬂows, the pharmacist’s strategic behavior
and/or business developments over time. A detailed comparison of the individual
pharmacies in regard to their current and potential customer value can be created on
the basis of the performance indicator systems that the pharmaceutical wholesalers
have as well as external systems (Wirtschaftsforschung 2010). This forms the basis
for strategic CRM decisions related to the constellation of business relationships
with certain types of pharmacies and individual pharmacies and the basis for
detailed planning, constellation and control of local, regional or national sales
strategies as well as strategies for speciﬁc topics or groups in regard to how they
affect the use of sales policy instruments (from the pharmaceutical industry side and
from the pharmaceutical wholesaler and/or pharmacy (cooperations) side). In
addition to the s/o/cCRM possibilities mentioned above, almost all pharmaceutical
wholesalers use their data for things like establishing their own brands, for offering
category management strategies (to the industry as well as to pharmacies) and/or for
arranging infomediary/market research services for third parties.

sCRM as a Requirement for oCRM and cCRM of Multi-channel Strategies
Depending on the relevant circumstances and strategic position selected, pharma-
ceutical wholesalers use the advantageous conditions of analytical CRM for the
various procedures in strategic CRM. So there are vast differences between coop-
erative pharmaceutical wholesalers (e.g. NOWEDA) owned by the pharmacies they
supply, pharmaceutical wholesalers owned by sector participants (e.g. ANZAG,
which changed owners in 2010: Gehe/Celesio, Sancorp, Phoenix and others sold
their shares to the new majority shareholder Alliance Boots from Great Britain) and
pharmaceutical wholesalers with an obligation to shareholder value (Phoenix,
e.g. towards the majority shareholders in the Merckle family, Celesio towards
Gehe and Haniel).

All pharmaceutical wholesalers base their decisions on detailed customer value
analysis, which includes classiﬁcation of pharmacies by individual criteria that,
depending on the pharmaceutical wholesaler strategy applied, can vary in their
strategic attractiveness and signiﬁcance. If the pharmaceutical wholesaler is inter-
ested in forming a “cooperation and chain,” it will
try to have the closest
relationships possible by law with the pharmacies that seem essential or well suited
to the cooperation, looking at regional and local aspects in this determination.
Individual pharmaceutical wholesalers see an opportunity in the coordination of
cooperative multi-channel concepts that can be attractive in various ways with the
participation of a large number of pharmacies: for the pharmaceutical industry,
there are better chances of systematically and comprehensively ﬁnding marketing
and sales partners for entire regions or target groups that cover multiple distribution
channels (particularly stationary and mail order). For the individual pharmacies,

322

M. Gersch

this means access to delivery conditions and marketing concepts that would not be
possible for a single pharmacy on its own. Classic individual stationary pharmacies
can then offer their customers e.g. professional online information or even
E-commerce functionalities or decentralized home delivery service. The pharma-
ceutical wholesaler can also beneﬁt from single pharmacies serving e.g. as opinion
leaders and lead users, or even simply because the single pharmacies are particu-
larly important precisely because of
In regard to other
pharmacies that do not seem conducive to a selected strategic concept or stand
out e.g. due to inefﬁcient conditions and/or behavior (such as unattractive location
or unsuitable equipment/conﬁguration of the pharmacy, de facto thwarting of
marketing strategies or lack of entrepreneurial skill amongst personnel, ﬂuctuating,
small order quantities of unattractive items from the product range, difﬁcult logis-
tical conditions), goals for the speciﬁc business relationship are formulated that can
specify supplying the pharmacy only under certain conditions or even include
terminating the relationship. An individual goal, combined with certain basic
requirements, is speciﬁed for each pharmacy and serves as the basis for operative
and communicative CRM.

their proﬁtability.

For the pharmaceutical wholesaler, communicative CRM is typically a combi-
nation of personal relationships and coordinated communication policy measures
ﬂanked by distribution and price policy measures as part of operative CRM. Each
pharmacy receives basic care and attention from the sales reps as well as from the
management level of the regional sales and logistics centers. The managers are
responsible for ongoing analysis and control of business relationships as well as for
the operative constellation of the business relationship to the pharmacies, and—
after coordination with central marketing departments that the larger pharmaceuti-
cal wholesalers may have—they use this information for actual implementation. A
fully integrated customer information system is typically used to coordinate the
different persons and measures. The system is linked via the customer data ware-
house to the computer-supported inventory control system and e.g. to the ERP
system-based functions accounting and controlling. The customer information
system provides the responsible persons—graded by their access rights—with not
only all of the available data and histories on individual customers, it also contains
goals and speciﬁcations for the current and future actions having to do with the
speciﬁc relationship. These range from granting individual delivery conditions
(especially different types of discounts and terms of payment) to individual cases
of facilitating or directly supporting individual projects of pharmacies, e.g. with a
suitable ﬁnancing model. The reasons for this range from a new opening or
modernization of the pharmacy to forms of differentiating campaign management.
The pharmaceutical wholesaler sometimes acts as the middleman for single phar-
maceutical manufacturers to accompany, monitor and possibly control the opera-
tive implementation of actions that
the sales force has facilitated for the
pharmacies. The importance is increasing of commercial and private label
strategies of the pharmaceutical wholesaler, who makes agreements with selected
pharmacies—especially in the high-margin OTC assortments but also in the free-

9 Customer Relationship Management

323

choice assortment—that increase proﬁtability and also promote the beneﬁts of
customer loyalty.

The competition for especially attractive existing locations and for new locations
and concepts becomes ﬁercer. An increase particularly in various constellations of
pharmacy cooperations (EPC 2010) poses a threat to pharmaceutical wholesalers of
losing previously attractive strategic positions in the value- chain. Some pharma-
ceutical wholesalers are reacting with their own chain/cooperation concepts, while
others seek to position themselves as a “neutral partner” or “friend of owner-
operated pharmacies.” But customer relationship management is always the strate-
gic foundation for defending the positions in the pharmaceutical branch that have
evolved over decades.

9.3.2.2 Digitalization, Cross-linkage and System Integration Promote

More Comprehensive CRM

Increasing digitalization and cross-linkage of all internal and business processes
and those occurring between companies (in regard to E-business/E-commerce
(Gersch 2010); in regard to diffusion rates (Infratest 2009) is possible only with
better connectivity, cross-linkage and integration of the most varied operational
information systems (Mertens 2009). New architectural concepts (such as service-
oriented architectures (SOA), Gomez 2010), and developments like “Software-
as-a-service” (Buxmann 2010) or Web 2.0- applications as the foundation of
social networks (Lackes and Siepermann 2010) promote successive convergence
processes, meaning technical as well as organizational merging of previously
separate technologies and the applications and concepts based on the technologies.
The technology and technical skills required to compile, save, evaluate and use
individual data in different manners is becoming simpler and less expensive all
the time.

These self-reinforcing technical mechanisms (left loop in Fig. 9.7) at the same
time promote increasing customization within the strategies of single companies at
the market level. Among other factors, this impacts the expectations of current and
potential customers as well as the perception of competitors in regard to relevant
competition parameters (right loop in Fig. 9.7).

Momentum in linked paths

Convergence

Customization

CRM

Digitalization
Cross-Linkage

Competitive
parameters

Fig. 9.7 Momentum from “linked paths”

324

M. Gersch

Path dependencies (Sydow et al. 2009) suggest momentum on both the technical
side and the market side (linked paths) that tends to promote development towards
greater and greater propagation of CRM strategies. However, this process of
“eTransformation” takes more time and is not as straightforward as it was thought
to be in the early phases of E-business (Gersch 2004, 2010).

Conclusion

The interim “CRM euphoria” has given way to more realistic experiences as to
which forms of customer relationship management seem to make sense econom-
ically. It continues to be apparent that rapid technological developments mean
that the fundamental beneﬁts of business relationship management are becoming
an interesting strategic option for more and more companies. Nothing has
changed so far in regard to the fundamental concepts of business relationship
management (and is not anticipated in the foreseeable future). The rapidly
developing implementation and utilization possibilities have changed dramati-
cally, and the success of various participants has caused CRM skeptics to sit up
and take notice.

Besides individual attempts to implement comprehensive, completely
“integrated CRM concepts” right from the start, it is becoming more common
to favor selective CRM solutions, with clear and predictable investment risks,
focused on selected segments and partial issues. If—depending on the collected
experiences and the development of relevant basic conditions—this occurs with
the intention of successively expanding the CRM strategy to other functional

Attempt to define CRM

CRM is a ...:
• Customer-oriented management 

approach that, with the aid of
customer-oriented information systems 
enables collection, presentation and use 
of customer knowledge. It also applies a
comprehensive orientation of all 
corporate activities towards customer 
processes, thus pursing 
initiation, control and monitoring of 
individualized and 
long-term profitable customer 
relationships.

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
m
 
e
g
d
e
l
w
o
n
K

(cid:129)
(cid:129)

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

... Interface topic:

Relationship marketing

Customer relationship

C
u
s
t
o
m
e
r
 
p
r
o
c
e
s
s

B
u
s
i
n
e
s
s
 
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
 

m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t

e
g
d
e
l
w
o
n
k
 
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

Customer 
relationship 
management

Customer-oriented 
information system

IT concept

Fig. 9.8 Characterization of CRM. Source: Based on Sexauer (2002)

9 Customer Relationship Management

325

Theory: CRM is not a completed tool. 
Many essential requirements have to be considered!

People

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

CRM requires BR-oriented marketing 
stance of participants
CRM must be consistently thought 
about and practiced

CRM

Processes

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

Process requirements have to be 
met
CRM cannot be realized without 
making process changes to "back 
office" and "touch points"

Technology

(cid:129)

(cid:129)

Collecting and collating relevant 
customer data (overcoming system 
and compatibility limits)
Use of task-related CRM tools

Fig. 9.9 Relevant dimensions of CRM implementation

areas and departments, many promising migration strategies emerge, which
must of course meet the technical, organizational and HR requirements for
integrative CRM discussed in this contribution. There can be no “one-size-ﬁts-
all” assessments as to “which type” and “how much” CRM are right for a
company. Each company will have to ﬁnd its own individual development and
migration path. Despite the difﬁculties of adequately and precisely evaluating
performance, more and more companies are choosing this path.

CRM can under no circumstances be reduced to the implementation of
relevant software solutions. The deﬁnition provided by Sexauer (2002) and his
justiﬁed characterization of CRM as an interface topic (Fig. 9.8) clearly empha-
size that only orchestration of the aspects stated in Fig. 9.9 can ensure success.

Appendix

Exercises

1. Describe the basic conditions that enable the use of customer relationship
management (CRM) to be successful. To what extent does IT development
play a crucial role?

326

M. Gersch

2. Explain

the

connections

and

dependencies

between

operative

and

analytical CRM.

3. Compare and explain the cost and beneﬁt aspects of CRM.
4. Explain the HR aspects of integrating CRM and offer potential solutions using a

CRM implementation strategy.

5. Discuss the potential of CRM when the sales force uses mobile or stationary

terminals.

6. Explain the uses of CRM applications in regard to campaign management.
7. Illustrate the use of CRM by means of the so-called “feedback loop”.
8. Describe the possibilities of customer interaction centers as they relate to

inbound and outbound activities.

References

(BPI), B. d. p. I. (2010). Pharma-Daten 2010 (40 ed.). Berlin.
(VFA), V. d. f. P. (2010). Statistics 2010—die Arzneimittelindustrie in Deutschland. Berlin.
Ansari, A. (2000). Internet recommendation systems. Journal of Marketing Research, 37(3),

363–375.

Apothekenverba¨nde, B. D. (2009). Die Apotheke: Zahlen, Daten, Fakten 2009.
Arens, T. (2004). Methodische Auswahl von CRM Software. Go¨ttingen.
Becker, J., & Knackstedet, R. (2011). Data-Warehousing im CRM. In H. Hippner, B. Hubrich, &

K. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM (pp. 757–781). Wiesbaden: Springer.

Bruhn, M. (2007). Kundenorientierung: Bausteine f€ur ein exzellentes Customer Relationship

Management. Mu¨nchen: Deutscher Taschenbuch.

Bundestag, M. D. (2010). Mehr Wettbewerb: wenig Ausnahmen, Achtzehntes Hauptgutachten der

Monopolkommission 2008/2009. In B. 17/2600 (Ed.).

Buse, C. (2010). Arzneimittelversandhandel: Trends, Chancen und Perspektiven. http://www.

bvdva.de/ﬁleadmin/content/ Accessed 6/05/2010.

Buxmann, P. (2010). Software-as-a-Service. http://www.enzyklopaedie-der-wirtschaftsinformatik.

de/wi-enzyklopaedie/lexikon/is-management/Integration-und-Migration-von-IT-Systemen/

Chamoni, P. (1998). Entwicklungslinien und Architekturkonzepte des On-Line Analytical
Processing. In P. Chamoni, & P. Gluchowski (Eds.), Analytische Informationssysteme
(pp. 231–250). Berlin et al.

Chamoni, P., Beekmann, F., & Bley, T. (2010). Ausgewa¨hlte Verfahren des Data Mining. In
Informationssysteme—Business

P. Chamoni, & P. Gluchowski
Intelligence-Technologien und Anwendungen (4 ed., pp. 329-356). Berlin et al.

(Eds.), Analytische

Dittmar, C., & Ossendoth, V. (2010). Die organisatorische Dimension von Business Intelligence.
(Eds.), Analytische Informationssysteme—Business

In P. Chamoni, & P. Gluchowski
Intelligence-Technologien und –Anwendungen (4 ed., pp. 59–86). Berlin et al.

Du¨sing, R. (2010). Knowledge discovery in databases – Begriff, Forschungsgebiet, Prozess und
System. In P. Chamoni, & P. Gluchowski (Eds.), Analytische Informationssysteme: Business
Intelligence-Technologien und—Anwendungen (4 ed., pp. 281–306). Berlin et al.

Engelhardt, W. H., & Gersch, M.

(1995).

Informationsmanagement als Instrument zur
erfolgreichen Gestaltung
deutschen
Pharmagroßhandels. In V. Trommsdorf (Ed.), Handelsforschung 1995/96—Informations-
management im Handel (pp. 201–222). Berlin.

von Gescha¨ftsbeziehungen:

am Beispiel

des

EPC (2010). Apothekenkooperationen—Monitor 2010. Hamburg.
Freter, H. (2008). Markt- und Kundensegmentierung (2ed.). Stuttgart.
Gabriel, R., & Beier, D. (2003). Informationsmanagement in Organisationen. Stuttgart.

9 Customer Relationship Management

327

Gabriel, R., Knittel, F., Taday, H., & Reif-Mosel, A.-K. (2002). Computergest€utzte Informations-

und Kommunikationssysteme in der Unternehmung. Berlin et al.

Gabriel, R., Gluchowski, P., & Pastwa, A. (2009). Datawarehouse & Data Mining. Witten.
Gersch, M. (1998). Vernetzte Gesch€aftsbeziehungen. Wiesbaden: Gabler.
Gersch, M. (1999). Das Management vernetzter Gescha¨ftsbeziehunge. In H. Hippner, M. Meyer,
& K. D. Wilde (Eds.), Computer based marketing (2 ed., pp. 26–35). Braunschweig/
Wiesbaden.

Gersch, M. (2004). Versandapotheken in Deutschland: Die Geburt einer neuen Dienstleistung: wer
wird eigentlich der Vater. Marketing ZFP, 26(Sonderheft Dienstleistungsmarketing), 59–70.
Gersch, M. (2010). Electronic business. In K. Kurbel, J. Becker, N. Gronau, E. Sinz, & L. Suhl
(Eds.), Enzyklop€adie der Wirtschaftsinformatik: Online Lexikon (4th ed.). Munich:
Oldenbourg Wissenschaftsverlag.

Gluchowski, P., Gabriel, R., & Chamoni, P. (2008). Management Support Systeme und Business
Intelligence—Computergest€utzte Informationssysteme f€ur F€uhrungskr€afte und Entschei-
dungstr€ager (2nd ed.). Berlin: Springer.

Gomez, J. C. M.

(2010). Serviceorientierte Architekturen. http://www.enzyklopaedie-der-

wirtschafts-informatik.de/wi-enzyklopaedie/.

Gottwald, M., & Karlstetter, F. (2010). Gottwald, M., & Karlstetter, F. (2010). Standalone-

Lo¨sungen sind im CRM-Umfeld bevorzugt. CRM Trend Report von SoftSelect und Activity

Großhandels, P. B. d. p. (2011). Branchenportrait—Der vollversorgende pharmazeutische
in Deutschland. http://www.phagro.de/portal/alias_phagro/lang_de-DE/tabid_

Großhandel
6648/default.aspx

Gu¨nter, B.

(2006). Kundenwert—mehr

der
Kundenbewertung. In B. Gu¨nter, & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert—Grundlagen, Innovative
Konzepte, Praktische Umsetzung (pp. 241–265). Wiesbaden.

nur Erlo¨s—Qualitative Bausteine

als

Gu¨nter, B., & Helm, S. (2011). Kundenbewertung im Rahmen des CRM. In H. Hippner,
B. Hubrich, & K. D. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM (3rd ed., pp. 241–265). Wiesbaden:
Gabler.

Haas, A. (2011). Interessenmanagement. In H. Hippner, B. Hubrich, & K. D. Wilde (Eds.),

Grundlagen des CRM (3rd ed., pp. 343–371). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Haucap, P. D. J. (2010). Wieviel Wettbewerb vertr€agt der Apothekenmarkt. http://www.bvdva.de/

uploads/downloads/kongress-referenten-vortraege/2010/apotheken-mai-2010-haucap.pdf.

Helmke, S., Uebel, M. F., & Dangelmaier, W. (2008). Effektives customer relationship manage-

ment (4th ed.). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Hilbert, A.

(2009). Customer

relationship management. http://www.enzyklopaedie-der-
wirtschafts¬informatik.de/wi-enzyklopaedie/lexikon/informationssysteme/crm-scm-und-elec
tronic-business/Customer-Relationship-Management

Hippel, E. V. (1986). Lead users: A source of novel product concepts. Management Science, 32(7),

791–805.

Hippner, H. (2006). CRM—Grundlagen, Ziele und Konzepte. In H. Hippner & K. D. Wilde (Eds.),

Grundlagen des CRM (2nd ed., pp. 16–44). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Hippner, H. (2010). Komponenten und Potenziale eines analytischen Customer Relationship
Management. In P. Chamoni & P. Gluchowski (Eds.), Analytische Informationssysteme—
Business Intelligence-Technologien und Anwendungen (4th ed., pp. 395–418). Berlin:
Springer.

Hippner, H., Griese, L., & Wilde, K. D. (2011). Data mining. In H. Hippner, B. Hubrich, & K. D.

Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM (3rd ed., pp. 783–809). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Hippner, H., Rentzmann, R., & Wilde, K. D. (2006). Aufbau und Funktionalita¨ten von
CRM-Systemen. In H. Hippner & K. D. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM (2nd ed.,
pp. 46–74). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Hippner, H., Ru¨hl, D., & Wilde, K. D. (2009). CRM-Studie. Weßling.
Hippner, H., & Wilde, K. (2008). Data mining in CRM. In S. Helmke, M. F. Uebel, &
ed.,

relationship management

(Eds.), Effektives

customer

(4th

W. Dangelmaier
pp. 205–225). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

328

M. Gersch

Infratest, T. (2009). Monitoring Informationswirtschaft. https://www.tns-infratest.com/Monitor

ing-Deutschland-Digital/Monitoring-Report-Deutschland-Digital-Archiv.asp

Kleinaltenkamp, M., & Dahlke, B. (2006). Der Wert des Kunden als Informant—auf dem Weg zu
einem “konwledge based customer value”. In B. Gu¨nter & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert (3rd
ed., pp. 217–240). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Kroenke, D. (2013). Using MIS (6th ed.). Prentice Hall.
Kunz, A. R. (2001). Alternative distributionswege f€ur pharmazeutische Produkte. Wiesbaden:

Gabler.

Lackes, R., & Siepermann, M. (2010). Web 2.0.
Laudon, K., & Kraver, C. (2010). E-Commerce 2010 (6ed.). Boston.
Laudon, K., Laudon, J., & Schoder, D. (2010). Wirtschaftsinformattik (2ed.). Mu¨nchen.
Lee, K., & Kwon, S. (2008). Online shopping recommendation mechanism and its inﬂuence on
consumer decisions and behaviors—A causal map approach. Expert Systems with
Applications, 35(4), 1567–1574.

Leußer, W., Hippner, H., & Wilde, K. (2011). CRM—Grundlagen, Konzepte und Prozesse. In
H. Hippner, B. Hubrich, & K. D. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM. Strategie, Gesch€aft-
sprozesse und IT-Unterst€utzung (3 ed., pp. 15–55). Wiesbaden.

Mertens, P. (2009). Integrierte Informationsverarbeitung 1, Operative Systeme in der Industrie

(17 ed.). Wiesbaden.

Mertens, P. (2010). Wirtschaftsinformatik. http://www.enzyklopaedie-der-wirtschaftsinformatik.
de/wi-enzyklopaedie/lexikon/uebergreifendes/Kerndisziplinen/Wirtschaftsinformatik. Acces-
sed 21/03/2011.

Merzenich, M., Hippner, H. J., H.-F., & Wilde, K. (2011). Gestaltung kundenbezogener Gescha¨ft-
sprozesse. In H. Hippner, B. Hubrich, & K. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM (3 ed.,
pp. 15–55). Wiesbaden.

MKG 2010 Deutscher Bundestag (2010). Mehr Wettbewerb—wenig Ausnahmen, Achtzehntes

Hauptgutachten der Monopolkommision 2008/2009;Bundesdrucksache 17/2600

Monopolkommission (2006). Sechzehntes Hauptgutachten der Monopolkommission 2004/2005:

Mehr Wettbewerb auch im Dienstleistungssektor. Baden-Baden.

Neckel, P., & Knobloch, B. (2005). Customer relationship analytics. Heidelberg. (2010, 18/08/

2010). Financial Times Deutschland, p. 25.

Peppers, D., & Rogers, M. (1997). Enterprise One-to-One. New York et al.
Picot, A., Rechwald, R., & Wigand, R. (2003). Die grenzenlose Unternehmung (5ed.). Wiesbaden.
Piller, F. T. (1998). Kundenindividuelle Massenproduktion. Mu¨nchen, Wien.
Piller, F. T. (2001). Mass customization. Wiesbaden.
Pine, J. B. (1993). Mass customization. Boston.
Reckenfelderba¨umer, M., & Welling, M. (2006). Der Beitrag der relativen Einzel-, Prozesskosten-
und Deckungsbeitragsrechnung zur Ermittlung von Kundenwerten. In B. Gu¨nter, & S. Helm
(Eds.), Kundenwert (pp. 335–368). Wiesbaden.

Reichheld, F. F. (1993). Treue Kunden mu¨ssen auch rentabel sein. Harvard Business Manager, 15

Reichheld, F. F., & Sasser, E. W. (1990). Zero defections: Quality comes to service. Harvard

(3), 106–114.

Business Review, 68(5), 105–111.

Rentzmann, R., Hippner, H., Hesse, F., & Wilde, K.

IT-Unterstu¨tzung durch
CRM-Systeme. In H. Hippner, B. Hubrich, & K. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM (3 ed.,
pp. 129–155). Wiesbaden.

(2011).

Rese, M., Papenhoff, H., & Wilke, A.

(2008). Cross-Buying Effekte in Multi Partner
Bonusprogrammen. In S. Helmke, M. F. Uebel, & W. Dangelmaier (Eds.), Effektives customer
relationship marketing (4th ed., pp. 435–448). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

Schaller, C., Stotko, C., & Piller, F. T. (2006). Mit mass customization basiertem CRM zu loyalen
Kundenbeziehungen. In H. Hippner & K. D. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM (2nd ed.,
pp. 121–143). Wiesbaden: Gabler.

9 Customer Relationship Management

329

Schelp, J.

(2010). Near-realtime-warehousing.

(Eds.),
Analytische Informationssysteme. Business Intelligence-Technologien und Anwendungen
(pp. 463–480). Berlin: Springer.

In P. Chamoni, & P. Gluchowski

Schloh, M. (2010). Trends beim Arzneiversand—Blick ins Ausland. http://www.bvdva.de/
ﬁleadmin/content/pdf/aktuelles/BVDVA_Kongress/Kongress_2010/2010-05-05_BVDVA_-
_Versand¬apo¬thekenvortrag-Schloh.pdf. Accessed 6/05/2010.

Scho¨gel, M., Binder, J., Schmidt, I., & Sauer, A. (2011). Multi-channel management im CRM. In
H. Hippner, B. Hubrich, & K. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM (3 ed., pp. 559–596).
Wiesbaden.

Scho¨ler, A. (2011). Ru¨ckgewinnungsmanagement. In H. Hippner, B. Hubrich, & K. Wilde (Eds.),

Grundlagen des CRM (3 ed., pp. 499–525). Wiesbaden.

Schumann, M. (1992). Betriebliche Nutzeffekte und Strategiebeitr€age der großintegrierten

In-formationsverarbeitung. Berlin: Springer.

Schumann, M. (1993). Wirtschaftlichkeitsbeurteilung fu¨r IV-Systeme. Wirtschaftsinformatik, 35

(2), 167–178.

Sexauer, H. J. (2001). Customer care management in Deutschland—Eine empirische Erhebung. In

W. Engelbach, & R. Meier (Eds.), Customer Care Management. Wiesbaden.

Sexauer, H. J. (2002). Entwicklungslinien des customer relationship management (CRM).

Wirtschaftswissenschaftliches Studium (WiSt), 31(4), 218–222.

Sexauer, H. J., & Wellner, M. (2008). Vertriebssteuerung durch operative CRM-Systeme—
Anwendungsstand und Nutzenpotenziale in der betrieblichen Praxis.
In S. Helmke,
M. Uebel, & W. Dangelmaier (Eds.), Effektives Customer Relationship Management (4 ed.,
pp. 171–186). Wiesbaden.

Shapiro, C., & Varian, H. (1998). Information rules. Boston.
Sydow, J., Schreyo¨gg, G., & Koch, J. (2009). Organizational path dependence: Opening the black

box. Academy of Management Review, 34(4), 689–709. doi:10.5465/amr.2009.44885978.

Uebel, M. (2008). Wirtschaftlichkeitsberechnungen fu¨r CRM-Lo¨sungen. In S. Helmke, M. Uebel,
& W. Dangelmaier (Eds.), Effektives customer relationship management (4 ed., pp. 337–352).
Wiesbaden.

Unknown (2010). Financial times Deutschland, 18. August 2010, p.25.
Voigt, R. (2009). Versandhandel: Dynamik im stagnierenden Apothekenmarkt. http://www.bvdva.de/
ﬁlead-min/content/pdf/aktuelles/vortrage/Vortraege_kongress/BVDVA_Veranstaltung_Versanda-
potheken_Pressemappe_Herr_Voigt.pdf. Accessed 15/05/2009.

Weiber, R. (2002). Die empirischen Gesetze der Netzwerko¨konomie. Die Unternehmung, 56,

1–34.

Weiber, R. (2006). Ansa¨tze zur Steigerung des Kundenwertes im Electronic Business. In

B. Gu¨nter, & S. Helm (Eds.), Kundenwert (3 ed., pp. 747–779). Wiesbaden.

Weiber, R., & Zu¨hlke, S. (2005). Elektronische Gescha¨ftsprozesse im Business-to-Business-
Sektor. In M. Ja¨ckel, & R. Weiber (Eds.), Arbeit im E-Business—Auswirkungen neuer
Informationstechnologien auf Kommunikations-, Arbeits- und Gesch€aftsprozesse (pp. 13–79).
Mu¨nchen.
Weidner, C.

(2007). CRM Praxishandbuch—Erfolgreicher Einsatz von CRM-Software—
Unternehmen berichten aus der Praxis. http://www.crmmanager.de/ ressourcen/crm_ebook.
php. Accessed 07/2007.

Wimmer, F., & Go¨b, J. (2006). Customer Intelligence—Marktforschung und Kundenanalyse als
Informationsgrundlagen im CRM. In H. Hippner, & K. Wilde (Eds.), Grundlagen des CRM
(2 ed., pp. 400–418). Wiesbaden.

Wirtschaftsforschung, I. F. (2010). VR-info Branchenspecial: Apotheken, im Auftrag der Volks-
und Raiffeisenbanken. http://www.volksbank-goeppingen.de/etc/medialib/i240m0136/pdf___
zip/downloads_ﬁrmenkunden/branchen_spezial_-1.Par.0002.File.tmp/Apotheken.pdf
Zerdick, A., Picot, A., & Schrape, A. e. a. (2001). Die Internet-O¨konomie. Berlin et al.

Index

A
Analytical customer relationship management

(aCRM)

data mining, 294
German pharmaceutical market, 320–321
KDD, 294

Automated learning relationships

Amazon/Baur Versand, 313
customer touch points and interaction

channels, 313–315
Last.fm/Putpat, 312–313
recommendation systems, 311

B
Behavioral approaches

conceptualization, customer loyalty, 29
dissonance theory, 30

Bonding effects, switching costs
direct switching costs, 38–39
investments related to business

relationships, 33–38

Bonding, market transaction

behavioral determinant, 73
C/D paradigm, 69, 70
demand-based, 64
economic effects, 64
exchange relationship, 64, 65
expectations, 73
GAP model, 69, 70
investments, 65
legal regulations, 65
mental ignoring, 72
net beneﬁt, 67
opportunism, 67
reciprocity, 74
relationship marketing, 74

satisfaction, 67, 68
self-conﬁdence, 74
transaction costs, 64, 68
trust and commitment, 71, 73
warranty period, 65

Business relationship management

behavior and perception, 283–284
communication strategies, 138, 139
competitive and marketing

strategy, 109–112

control loop, dynamic aspects, 278, 279
control parameters, 281, 282
corporate network, 140–148
corporate reality, 116
cost-escalations, 139
costs and beneﬁts, 115
customer and supplier point, 116
customer-based component, 113
customer behavior, 136–137
customer needs and supplier

service, 137–138
customer’s reasons, 135
customer value, 135–136
economic control parameters, 281, 283
fading away and withdrawal, 139
in-supplier marketing, 129–135
internal implementation, 278
market cultivation, 280
market process, 278
monitoring, 284
out-supplier marketing, 122–129
perception and behavior parameters, 280
proﬁt, 115
pseudo-deescalation, 139
static/dynamic perspective, 116
strategic analysis, 116–122
supplier company, 140

# Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M. Kleinaltenkamp et al. (eds.), Business Relationship Management and Marketing,
Springer Texts in Business and Economics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-662-43856-5

331

332

Index

Business relationship management (cont.)

supplier’s view, 114, 115
target market, 114
target/performance comparisons, 284
technical and legal course, 140
time aspect, 278
transaction, 114
WOM, 138

Business relationship over time

customer relationship, 79
in- and out-supplier, 79
life cycle, 80
market transactions, 79
phase sequence, 80
procurement processes, 81
typical salesperson, 81

Business relationships

altered market focus, 7
attributes, 10
behavioral approaches, 29–30
behavior scheme, 4
“business friendship”, 10
changes in ﬁeld of marketing, 6
changes in ﬁeld of technology, 5–6
commitment in, 40–46
commitments between suppliers and

customers, 9, 10

competition, 3
competitive arena, 4
creeping commitment, 12
customer beneﬁts, 4
customer’s ﬂexibility, 15
de-facto business relationship, 11, 12
direct switching costs, 38–39
discrete and relational transactions, 8
individual competitive policy, 4
internal link, 10
internationalization, 16–20
investments related to business

relationships, 33–38

just-in-time systems, 13
loyalty effects, 39–40
manifestations, 9
marketing in, 4–5
planned business relationship, 14–15
process attributes, 47–48
responsibility in, 20–23
series of transactions, 7
social psychological scheme, 30–33
structural attributes, 46–47
supplier/purchaser relationships, 5
switching costs, 12, 13
theoretical approaches, 27–29
transaction costs, 12
value-adding partnerships, 13

C
cCRM. See Communicative CRM (cCRM)
Chinese business relationships

confucian values and notion, guanxi, 171–174
elements, guanxi, 174–176
harmony, 176
stratagems, Sun Zi, 177–178

CLV. See Customer lifetime value (CLV)
Commitment in business relationships

commitment dimensions on intended

behavior, 45

commitment-trust model, 42
customer loyalty, 44
fundamental constellations, 45–46
relationship equity, 41–42
search costs and setup costs, 43
So¨llner’s commitment model, 41
trust, 43

Commitment-trust model, 42
Communication policies

complaint management, 222–225
cooperations with user groups (see User

groups)

description, 222
personal relationships and coordinated, 322
potential customer base, 231
supplier and customer personnel

relationship, 225–228

Communicative CRM (cCRM), 296
Competitive and marketing strategy

corporate software, 110, 111
economic decisions, 109
market-oriented corporate management, 112
OEMs, 110, 111
semiconductors, 110–111
software supplier B, 112
supplier–customer interaction, 109

Complaint management process

complaint (dis)satisfaction

development, 224

complaint tolerance zone, 224–225
description, 223
free of faults, business relationships, 222–223
targets, 223

Comprehensive guanxi model

adaptation and performance, 185
changing relationship context, 182–183
European–Chinese business relationships, 182
management implementation, 184–185
market intelligence, perceptual

positioning, 183

positioning map and development

routes, 183–184

Conﬁrmation/disconﬁrmation (C/D)

paradigm, 69, 70

Index

333

Contemporary business culture, China, 185–186
Corporate network

fundamental organizational options, 248
institutionalized relationship

business relationships, 18
parallel business relationships, 141–144
partner network, 145
partnerships for innovations, 145–148
partnerships for market access, 148

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 22
Corporate-wide relationship management, 250
Creeping commitment, 12
CRM. See Customer relationship management

(CRM)

CRM performance analysis

cost and revenue classiﬁcations, 302–303
disenchantment and disappointment, 305
diversity and contention of methods, 304
economic effect systemization, 302
linkage and integration, 303
positive and negative effects, 303
uncertainty and innovation, 303–304

Cross-cultural communication

comprehensive guanxi model, Wong and

Leung, 182–185

divisions, 159
gap analysis, 179–180
high vs. low context, 159
mutual adaptation, third-culture

building, 180–182

space, 160
time, 160–162

Cross-selling

and/or “up-selling”, 310
consumer marketing, 205
and customer loyalty, 204
customer’s needs, additional

services, 204–205

description, 204
growth opportunities, 204
sales and business relationship

management, 205

Culture

business practice, Chinese, 155, 186
contemporary business culture,

China, 185–186

cross-cultural communication

(see Cross-cultural communication)

deﬁnition, 154
Europe and China (see European–Chinese

cultural difference)

GLOBE study, 156–157
Hofstede’s culture’s consequences, 155–156
layers, 154
value orientations, 155

Customer-based organizational structure

business-to-business relationships, 246

management, 248–249

KAM (see Key account management (KAM))
National Account Marketing

Association, 245
“part-time relationship

management”, 249–250

relationship management as full-time

job, 250–251

sample customer strategy, 246, 247
special organizational options, 248

Customer beneﬁts

ancillary services

communication technologies, 63
CRM, 62, 63
exchange relationships, 62
material sales, 63–94

bonding (see Bonding, market transaction)
core service, 60
long-term security, 61
NIFA panel, 60–61
relative net beneﬁt, 60
total sales, 61

Customer contribution margin

bad customers, 93
basic structure, 90
combined revenue/contribution margin

analysis, 92, 93

pool calculation, 92
quasi overhead, 91
relevant costs and revenue, 90
scope, 91–92
worthwhile, 92

Customer evaluation methods, 104–105
Customer lifetime value (CLV)
automation company, 95, 96
business relationship, 136
control parameter, 281
conventional cost accounting system, 283
decision-making criteria, 142
framework agreement, 97
interest rate, 95
investment analysis methods, 93
KAM teams, 269
net present value, 94
potential, 94
present, 94
relevant cash ﬂows, 95
retention rate, 94
time frame, 95

Customer portfolios

business relationship management, 104
customer attractiveness/relative supplier

position, 103

334

Index

Customer portfolios (cont.)

customer value analysis, 102
internal criteria and external criteria, 103–104
portfolio theory, 102
scoring process, 103
static model, 104

Customer-related sales information systems

administrative tasks, SIS, 307
campaign control, 308
campaign evaluation, 308
campaign planning, 307–308

Customer relationship management (CRM)

aCRM, 294–295
Amazon, 291
application systems, 289
Audi AG, 291
beneﬁts, 297–298
business relationship management, 289
capital goods sector, 292
cCRM, 296
costs, 298
data mining, 294
differentiated performance analysis, 296
Google, Facebook & Co, 292
internet radio services, 291
Last.fm, 291
oCRM, 292–294
Otto, 292
Satisloh AG, 291
sCRM, 295
software systems, 290
strategies and sales policy instruments, 290
subordinate targets, 298

Customer’s loyalty, business relationship, 196
Customer’s switching costs

direct switching costs, 134
relationship-speciﬁc investments, 134
sunk costs, 134

Customer value

customer evaluation methods, 104–105
customer satisfaction, 284
and customer selection

control, 105–106
customer evaluation, 85–87
customer value (see Customer value)

direct revenue effects, 297
economic-quantitative gages, 87–97
multi-dimensional approaches, 99–104
non-monetary gages, 97–99
performance indicator systems, 321

D
Dedicated assets, 36
de-facto business relationship, 11, 12

Dialogic communication model, 181, 182
Direct switching costs, 38–39
Distance learning, customer training, 208
Distribution policies

ECR (see Efﬁcient consumer response

(ECR))

JIT delivery (see Just-in-time (JIT)

delivery)

relationship management, 214

E
E-Business, integrative CRM
characterization, 324, 325
“cross-linked business relationships” (see

German pharmaceutical market)
digitalization, cross-linkage and system

integration, 323–324

software solutions, 325

Economic indicators, business relationship

bonding effects of switching costs

direct switching costs, 38–39
investments related to business

relationships, 33–38

commitment, 40–46
loyalty effects, 39–40

Economic-quantitative gages

CLV, 93–97
customer contribution margin, 90–93
customer relevance, 87, 88
revenue analysis, 87–90

ECR. See Efﬁcient consumer response (ECR)
Efﬁcient consumer response (ECR)

cross-functional teams, 215
description, 215
sub-processes, 215, 216
supplier’s economic performance, 216
and supply chain management (SCM), 320
trading companies and manufacturers, 215

European–Chinese cultural difference

communication behavior, Chinese and

Westerners, 165, 166

GLOBE study, 162
Hofstede dimensions, comparisons, 161,

163

As Is- and Should Be-scores, 163–165
masculinity (MAS), 161–162

G
German pharmaceutical market

aCRM, 320–321
business relationships, 319–320
exclusion and substitution strategies, 320
health care reforms, 316

Index

sCRM, 321–323
structure, 317

Global Leadership and Organizational Behavior

Effectiveness (GLOBE) study

future orientation, 156
humane orientation, 156
individualism-collectivism, 156
internal and external forces, China, 157
masculinity, 156
performance orientation, 157

Guanxi relationship marketing

Chinese culture and Confucianism, 172
cooperation, long-term orientation and

performance, 174

description, 172
ganqing (emotional affection), 175
Kong Zi, 171
mianzi (social currency and personal

status), 174–175

person’s Guanxi-network, relationship

quality, 173

Plinke’s deﬁnition, 173
renqing (norm of reciprocity and exchange

of favors), 175

research, 172
and Western relationship

marketing, 171, 178, 179

xinren/xinyong (personal trust/social

credit), 175–176

H
Hofstede’s model

cultural dimensions, 155–156
LTO, 156
MAS and UAI, 156
PDI and INV, 156

Human asset speciﬁcity, 36

I
Increasing relationship value

core offering improvement, 130–132
customer operations, 133–134
procurement and interaction

process, 132–133
Individualism-collectivism

cultural distance index, 158
cultural impacts, business relationships,

158

GLOBE study, 157–158
horizontal and vertical, 157
and power distance, 157
Institutionalized relationship

management, 248–249

335

In-supplier marketing

customer’s switching costs, 134–135
increasing relationship value, 130–134
phase model, 129

Integrated CRM systems

automated learning

relationships, 311–315

customer life cycle, 305–306
customer processing, 306
customer-related sales information

systems, 306–308

data mining analyses of customer-related

data, 308–309

differentiated performance analysis, 315
E-Business (see E-Business, integrative

CRM)

interest management and customer

segmentation, 310

marketing instruments, 306
proactive recovery management, 310–311
technical realization, 306
underestimated prerequisites

HR aspects of integration, 301
prerequisite, cross-linking and

integration, 300

selective/focused CRM

applications, 302

semantics and pragmatic level of

compatibility, 300
technical aspects, 299

Internationalization of business relationships

cooperation, 17
corporate environment level, 19
corporate networks, 18
cost efﬁciency, 19
globalization, 16
innovative force, 19
intensive international competition, 16
level of organization, 19–20
market relationships, 19
offshoring and outsourcing, 18
production and transaction costs, 17
technological factor, 19
Internet radio services, 291
Investments related to business relationships

additional costs, 33
dedicated assets, 36
dependency based on investments, 34
economic activities, 34
human asset speciﬁcity, 36
physical asset speciﬁcity, 36
site speciﬁcity, 35–36
speciﬁcity-related losses, 35
supplier competition, 37
supplier investments, 37

336

J
Just-in-time (JIT) delivery

automobile manufacturers, causes, 218
co-makership, 220
component supplier products, 217
description, 216–217
disentangling value-adding steps, 217, 218
European automotive industry, 217
limitations, 221, 222
module and system procurement, 217
system procurement’s net effects,

rationalization, 219–220

system supplier tasks, cooperation

areas, 221

K
KAM teams

business relationship strategy, 267
cohesion, 276
communication relationships, 276, 277
corporate level effects, 278
culture, organizational, 270–271
duration of membership, 274
factors and effects, 267, 268
market orientation, 270
modern reward systems, 273
objectives, 276
organizational climate

decentralized strategic planning, 272
evolved structures, 271–272
facilitative leadership, 271

properties, 267
rules and procedures,

organizational, 272–274

social competencies, 275
standards, 275–276
success determinants, 269
supplier companies, 269
team level effects, 277
technical competencies, 274
technological environment, 267–268
time and resource allocation, 273

KDD. See Knowledge discovery in

databases (KDD)

Key account management (KAM)

analytical-conceptual capabilities, 265
customer and business expertise, 265–266
customer beneﬁts, 261
customer complexity, 262
decision making model, 251
disadvantages, 254
environmental complexity, 261

Index

integration alternatives, 253
internal and external competence, 260
line-and-staff organization, 252
line function

division/strategic business unit, 256
management board division “key

accounts”, 255

matrix organization, 259
sales area “key accounts”, 258–259
variation 4, 256, 257
matrix organization, 252
multi-dimensional organizational

forms, 252

offering complexity, 262
one-dimensional organizational forms, 252
personality traits, 264–265
position’s compositions, 260
social competence, 263–264
staff unit appointment, 254
supplier complexity, 262
teams (see KAM teams)

Knowledge discovery in databases

(KDD), 294

L
Lead users

cooperation transition, 211
degree and frequency, customer

initiative, 212
description, 210–211
impact, manufacturer’s point, 214
innovators, 210
manufacturer-dominated and user-

dominated innovation
process, 212, 213

product life cycle, 210
R&D projects, 212
reference system, 213
“service for payment”, 209–210

Long-term orientation (LTO), 156, 162
Loyalty effects, 39–40
LTO. See Long-term orientation (LTO)

M
Marketing in business relationships, 4–5
Market transactions

customer beneﬁts (see Customer beneﬁts)
supplier beneﬁt, 74–79

Multi-dimensional approaches

customer portfolios, 102–104
scoring models, 99–102

Index

N
Non-monetary gages

business-to-business sector, 97
corporate practice, 97
potential development, 98
potential for cooperation, 98
potential for innovation, 98
reference potential/ reference value, 98

O
oCRM. See Operative customer relationship

management (oCRM)

OEMs. See Original equipment manufactures

(OEMs)

Offshoring and outsourcing, 18
On-line analytical processing (OLAP), 294–295,

307, 309

Operative customer relationship management

(oCRM)

customer data warehouse, 293–294
linkage and coordination of all corporate

divisions, 292–293

ofﬁce application systems, 294

Original equipment manufactures (OEMs)

after-sales service, 207
automobile manufacturers, 110
foreign markets, 148
product launch, 123
pyramid, 198
supplier business, 126
supplier system, 111
Out-supplier marketing
Air Berlin, 122–123
anticipated time period, 128
bonding effect, 123–124
company’s environment, 124
customer, 127
customer rationale, 126
customer’s perspective, 125, 126
dynamic customer beneﬁt, 129
economic information, 125
features, 126–127
individual taste, 127
information substitutes, 129
macro environment, 124
OEM, 126
planned duration, 128
political-legal nature, 124
purchaser, 128
quality information, 126
real business relationship, 127
service, 128
single potential customer, 123
supplier-customer relationships, 125

337

P
Parallel business relationships

bottleneck, 142
customer 1 and 2, 144
machine tool manufacturer, 142
market transparency, 143
prioritization process, 142, 143
relationship-speciﬁc values, 143–144
standard operation, 141

Partial employment of relationship

management, 250

Part-time relationship management, 249–250
PDI. See Power distance (PDI)
Phase models

defending phase, 120
entry phase, 120
exploration phase, 119
individual phases, 118
market exchanges, 119
product-based and supplier-based, 119
product life cycle, 117, 118
social exchange theory, 120
termination phase, 121

Physical asset speciﬁcity, 36
Planned business relationship, 14–15
Power distance (PDI), 156, 162
Price denominator
choice of, 237
description, 235
Enercon Wind Energy, 236
performance effect, 236
physical product, 235
service output, 236

Pricing policies

bought customer loyalty, 234
capital employed, 234
cost and beneﬁt elements, 234
modules, terms and conditions

systems, 237–238

numerator (payment) and denominator, 233
perception and usage behavior, 233
price denominator, 235–237
product life cycle costs/TCO, 233
satisfaction, 235
trust-based customer loyalty, 234–235

Process attributes, business relationship, 47–48
Product policies

business relationships, developments, 197
cross-selling, 204–205
product-related services (see Product-

related services)

from product supplier to solution supplier,

197–200

service/product customization and

customer integration, 200–204

338

Index

Product-related services

after-sales service, 206–207
customer training, 207–208
lead user concepts and innovation support

(see Lead users)

process and quality improvement, 209
quality, 205
system components, 205, 206

Purchasing behavior

business relationship over time, 79–81
fundamental concepts, 57
market transaction (see Market

transactions)

Oracle, 58
SAP, 58
time sequence, 57

So¨llner’s commitment model, 41
Strategic analysis

long-term business relationships, 117
phase models, 117–121
reciprocal effects, 121–122

Strategic customer relationship management

(sCRM)

CRM subtasks, 295
German pharmaceutical market, 321–323

Structural attributes, business relationship, 46–47
Supplier beneﬁts, market transaction

contract theory, 75–76
positive net beneﬁt, 75
relational contracts

market exchange, 76, 77
net beneﬁt, 77
short-term, opportunism, 78
software consulting, 78

R
Relationship marketing. See Western business

Switching costs, 12, 13
System supplier and integrator

relationships

Responsibility in business relationships

comparison, offerings, 199, 200
ﬁelds of activities, 199

competitive strategy, 22
corporate behavior, 21
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 22
moral behavior and economic success, 21
proﬁtability and moral acceptance, 22
regulatory policy strategy, 22
working conditions, 20–21

S
Scoring models, 99–102
sCRM. See Strategic customer relationship

management (sCRM)

Service/product customization

bonding effects, 201
instruments, single customers information,

202, 203

integrative service creation, 200, 201
learning processes, supplier, 204
of offering, 200
resource integration, individual creation of

service, 201, 202

speciﬁc investments, business relationship,

202, 204

Shipping logistics at ThyssenKrupp Steel

Europe, 209
Site speciﬁcity, 35–36
Social psychological scheme

attractiveness and/or dependency, 31
comparison level (CL), 30–31
expectations of customer, 31
results of business relationship (RV), 30
structure of dependency, 32

T
Theoretical approaches, 27–29
Transaction costs, 12

U
UAI. See Uncertainty avoidance (UAI)
Uncertainty avoidance (UAI), 156, 162
User groups

cooperation with supplier-initiated, 232
cooperation with user-initiated, 230–232
description, 228
distribution, information gleaned from, 229
feeder groups, 229
functions, perceived by users, 230, 231
interface standardization, 229
purchase decision processes, 230
reference company, 229
supplier’s offerings, 197
system technologies, 228
user-initiated cooperation, 230–232

W
Western business relationships

bonds (Western networks), 168
fairness, 169–170
power and interdependence, 170–171
relationship marketing, 167
trust, 167–168

Word of mouth (WOM), 69, 138, 140, 223, 225

