3/464

CONTENTS

Prologue

1 Not My Business
2 The Finger on the Trigger
3 Matador
4 Truth and Consequence
5 Saint or Singer?
6 The Pleasure Dome
7 Feathered Serpent
8 Rue Britannia
9 Blood Money
10 Pain Synthesis
11 The Truth about Alex
12 Pedal Power
13 Emergency Measures

5/464

14 Unfair Exchange
15 Insanity and Biscuits
16 Eagle Strike
17 “Fasten Your Seat Belts”
18 Richmond Bridge

PROLOGUE

The Amazon jungle. Fifteen years ago.
It had taken them five days to make the
journey, cutting their way through the
dense, suffocating undergrowth,
fighting
through the very air, which hung heavy,
moist and still. Trees as tall as cathedrals
surrounded them, and a strange, green light
– almost holy – shimmered through the vast
canopy of leaves. The rainforest seemed to
have an intelligence of its own. Its voice was
the sudden screech of a parrot, the flicker of
a monkey swinging through the branches
overhead. It knew they were there.

But so far they had been lucky. They had
been attacked, of course, by leeches and
mosquitoes and stinging ants. But
the

7/464
snakes and scorpions had left them alone.
The rivers they had crossed had been free of
piranhas. They had been allowed to go on.

They were travelling light. They carried
with them only their basic rations: map,
compass, water bottles, iodine tablets, mos-
quito nets and machetes. Their single heav-
iest item was the 88 Winchester rifle with
Sniperscope that they were going to use to
kill the man who lived here in this impenet-
rable place, one hundred miles south of Iqui-
tos in Peru.

The two men knew each other’s names but
never used them. It was part of their train-
ing. The older of the two called himself
Hunter. He was English, although he spoke
seven languages so fluently that he could
pass himself off as a native of many of the
countries he found himself in. He was about
thirty, handsome, with the close-cut hair
and watchful eyes of a trained soldier. The
other man was
fair-haired and

slim,

8/464
twitching with nervous energy. He had
chosen the name of Cossack. He was just
nineteen years old. This was his first kill.

Both men were dressed in khaki – stand-
ard jungle camouflage. Their faces were
also painted green, with dark brown stripes
across their cheeks. They had reached their
destination just as the sun had begun to rise,
and were standing there now, utterly still,
ignoring the insects that buzzed around
their faces, tasting their sweat.

In front of them was a clearing, man-
made, separated from the jungle by a ten
metre high fence. An elegant colonial house
with wooden verandas and shutters, white
curtains and slowly rotating fans stood at
the heart of it, with two more low brick
buildings about twenty metres behind. Ac-
commodation for the guards. There must
have been about a dozen of them patrolling
the perimeter and watching from rusting
metal
towers. Perhaps there were more

9/464
inside. But they were lazy. They were shuff-
ling around, not concentrating on what they
were supposed to be doing. They were in the
middle of the jungle. They thought they
were safe.

A four-seater helicopter stood waiting on
a square of asphalt. It would take the owner
of the house just twenty steps to walk from
the front door to the helicopter. That was
the only time he would be visible. That was
when he would have to die.

The two men knew the name of the man
they had come to kill, but they didn’t use
that either. Cossack had spoken it once but
Hunter had corrected him.

“Never call a target by his real name. It
personalizes him. It opens a door into his
life and, when the time comes, it may re-
mind you what you are doing and make you
hesitate.”

10/464
Just one of the many lessons Cossack had
learnt from Hunter. They referred to the
target only as the Commander. He was a
military man – or he had been. He still liked
to wear military-style clothes. With so many
bodyguards he was in command of a small
army. The name suited him.

The Commander was not a good man. He
was a drug dealer, exporting cocaine on a
massive scale. He also controlled one of the
most vicious gangs in Peru, torturing and
killing anyone who got in his way. But all
this meant nothing to Hunter and Cossack.
They were here because they had been paid
twenty thousand pounds to take him out –
and if the Commander had been a doctor or
a priest it would have made no difference to
them.

Hunter glanced at his watch. It was two
minutes to eight in the morning and he had
been told the Commander would be leaving
for Lima on the hour. He also knew that the

11/464
Commander was a punctual man. He
loaded a single .308 cartridge into the
Winchester and adjusted the Sniperscope.
One shot was all he would need.

Meanwhile Cossack had taken out his
field glasses and was scanning the com-
pound for any sign of movement. The
younger man was not afraid, but he was
tense and excited. A trickle of perspiration
curved behind his ear and ran down his
neck. His mouth was dry. Something tapped
gently against his back and he wondered if
Hunter had touched him, warning him to
stay calm. But Hunter was some distance
away, concentrating on the gun.

Something moved.
Cossack only knew for certain it was
there when it climbed over his shoulder and
onto his neck – and by then it was too late.
Very slowly, he turned his head. And there it
was, at the very edge of his field of vision. A
spider, clinging to the side of his neck, just

12/464
underneath the line of his chin. He swal-
lowed. From the weight of it he had thought
it was a tarantula – but this was worse,
much worse. It was very black with a small
head and an obscene, swollen body, like a
fruit about to burst. He knew that if he could
have turned it over, he would have found a
red hourglass marking on its abdomen.

It was a black widow. Latrodectus cur-
acaviensis. One of the deadliest spiders in
the world.

The spider moved, its front legs reaching
out so that one was almost touching the
corner of Cossack’s mouth. The other legs
were still attached to his neck, with the main
body of the spider now hanging under his
jaw. He wanted to swallow again but he
didn’t dare. Any movement might alarm the
creature, which anyway needed no excuse
to attack. Cossack guessed that this was the
female of the species: a thousand times
worse than the male. If it decided to bite

13/464
him, its hollow fangs would inject him with
a neurotoxic venom which would paralyse
his entire nervous system. He would feel
nothing at first. There would just be two
tiny red pricks on his skin. The pain – waves
of it – would come in about an hour. His
eyelids would swell. He would be unable to
breathe. He would go into convulsions. Al-
most certainly he would die.

Cossack considered raising a hand and
trying to flick the hideous thing off. If it had
been anywhere else on his body he might
have taken the chance. But it had settled on
his throat, as if fascinated by the pulse it
had found there. He wanted to call
to
Hunter, but he couldn’t risk moving the
muscles in his neck. He was barely breath-
ing. Hunter was still making the final ad-
justments, unaware of what was going on.
What could he do?

In the end he whistled. It was the only
sound he dared make. He was horribly

14/464
aware of the creature hanging off him. He
felt the prick of another leg, this time touch-
ing his lip. Was it about to climb onto his
face?

Hunter looked round and saw at once
that something was wrong. Cossack was
standing unnaturally still, his head contor-
ted, his face, underneath the paint, com-
pletely white. Hunter took a step so that
Cossack now stood between him and the
compound. He had lowered the rifle, the
muzzle pointing towards the ground.

Hunter saw the spider.
At the same moment, the door of the
house opened and the Commander came
out: a short, plump man dressed in a dark
tunic hanging open at the collar. Unshaven,
he was carrying a briefcase and smoking a
cigarette.

Twenty steps to the helicopter – and he
was already moving briskly, talking to the

15/464
two bodyguards who accompanied him.
Cossack’s eyes flickered over to Hunter. He
knew the organization that had employed
them would not forgive failure, and this was
the only chance they would get. The spider
moved again and, looking down, Cossack
saw its head: a cluster of tiny, gleaming
eyes – half a dozen of them – gazing up at
him, uglier than anything in the world. His
skin was itching. The whole side of his face
wanted to peel itself away. But he knew that
there was nothing Hunter could do. He had
to fire now. The Commander was only ten
steps away from the helicopter. The blades
were already turning. Cossack wanted to
scream at him. Do it! The sound of the gun-
shot would frighten the spider and it would
bite. But that wasn’t important. The mission
had to succeed.

It took Hunter less than two seconds to
make a decision. He could use the tip of the
gun to brush away the black widow. He

16/464
might succeed in getting rid of it before it bit
Cossack. But by then the Commander would
be in his helicopter, behind bulletproof
glass. Or he could shoot the Commander.
But once he had fired the gun, he would
have to turn and run immediately, disap-
pear into the jungle. There would be no time
to help Cossack; there would be nothing he
could do.

He made his decision, swept up the gun,

aimed and fired.

The bullet, white-hot, flashed past, cutting
a line in Cossack’s neck. The black widow
disintegrated instantly, blown apart by the
force of the shot. The bullet continued across
the clearing and through the fence and –
still carrying tiny fragments of the black
widow with it – buried itself in the Com-
mander’s chest. The Commander had been
about
to climb into the helicopter. He
stopped as if surprised, put a hand to his
heart, and crumpled. The bodyguards

17/464
twisted round, shouting, staring into the
jungle, trying to see the enemy.

But Hunter and Cossack had already
gone. The
swallowed them in
seconds, although it was more than an hour
before they stopped to catch their breath.

jungle

Cossack was bleeding. There was a red
line that could have been drawn with a ruler
across the side of his neck, and the blood
had seeped down, soaking into his shirt. But
the black widow hadn’t bitten him. He held
out a hand, accepting a water bottle from
Hunter, and drank.

“You saved my life,” he said.
Hunter considered. “To take a life and
save a life with one bullet … that’s not bad
going.”

Cossack would have the scar for the rest
of his life. But that would not be a very long
time. The life of the professional assassin is
often short. Hunter would die first,
in

18/464
another country, on another mission. Later
it would be his turn.

Right now he said nothing. They had done
their job. That was all that mattered. He
gave back the water bottle, and as the sun
beat down and the jungle watched and re-
flected upon what had happened, the two
men set off together, cutting and hacking
their way through the mid-morning heat of
another day.

NOT MY BUSINESS

Alex Rider lay on his back, drying out in the
midday sun.

He could feel the salt water from his last
swim trickling through his hair and evapor-
ating off his chest. His shorts, still wet, clung
to him. He was, at that moment, as happy as
it is possible to be; one week into a holiday
that had been perfect from the moment the
plane had touched down in Montpellier and
he had stepped out into the brilliance of his
first Mediterranean day. He loved the South
of France – the intense colours, the smells,
the pace of life that hung onto every minute
and refused to let go. He hadn’t any idea
what time it was, except that he was getting
hungry and guessed it must soon be lunch.

20/464
There was a brief burst of music as a girl
with a radio walked past, and Alex turned his
head to follow her. And that was when the
sun went in, the sea froze, and the whole
world seemed to catch its breath.

He wasn’t looking at the girl with the ra-
dio. He was looking past her, down to the sea
wall that divided the beach from the jetty,
where a yacht was just pulling in. The yacht
was enormous, almost the size of one of the
passenger boats that carried tourists up and
down the coast. But no tourists would ever
set foot on this craft. It was completely unin-
viting, cruising silently through the water,
with tinted glass in the windows and a
massive bow that rose up like a solid white
wall. A man stood at the very front, staring
straight ahead, his face blank. It was a face
that Alex recognized instantly.

Yassen Gregorovich. It had to be.
Alex sat perfectly still, supporting himself
on one arm, his hand half buried in the sand.

21/464
As he watched, a man in his twenties ap-
peared from the cabin and busied himself
mooring the boat. He was short and apelike,
wearing a string vest that showed off the tat-
toos which completely covered his arms and
shoulders. A deckhand? Yassen made no of-
fer to help him with his work. A third man
hurried along the jetty. He was fat and bald,
dressed in a cheap white suit. The top of his
head had been burnt by the sun and the skin
had turned an ugly, cancerous red.

Yassen saw him and climbed down, mov-
ing like spilt oil. He was wearing blue jeans
and a white shirt open at the neck. Other
men might have had to struggle to keep their
balance walking down the swaying gang-
plank, but he didn’t even hesitate. There was
something inhuman about him. With his
close-cropped hair, his hard blue eyes and
pale, expressionless face, he was obviously
no holidaymaker. But only Alex knew the
truth about him. Yassen Gregorovich was a

22/464
contract killer, the man who had murdered
his uncle and changed his own life. He was
wanted all over the world.

So what was he doing here in a little sea-
side town on the edge of the marshes and la-
goons that made up the Camargue? There
was nothing in Saint-Pierre apart
from
beaches, campsites, too many restaurants
and an oversized church that looked more
like a fortress. It had taken Alex a week to get
used to the quiet charm of the place. And
now this!

“Alex? What are you looking at?” Sabina
murmured, and Alex had to force himself to
turn round, to remember that she was there.
“I’m…” The words wouldn’t come. He

didn’t know what to say.

“Do you think you could rub a little more
sun-cream into my back? I’m overheating…”
That was Sabina. Slim, dark-haired, and
sometimes much older than her fifteen years.

23/464
But then she was the sort of girl who had
probably swapped toys for boys before she
hit eleven. Although she was using factor 25,
she seemed to need more suncream rubbed
in every fifteen minutes, and somehow it was
always Alex who had to do it for her. He
glanced quickly at her back, which was in
fact perfectly bronzed. She was wearing a
bikini made out of so little material that it
hadn’t bothered with a pattern. Her eyes
were covered by a pair of
fake Dior
sunglasses (which she had bought for a tenth
of the price of the real thing) and she had her
head buried in The Lord of the Rings, at the
same time waving the suncream.

Alex looked back at the yacht. Yassen was
shaking hands with the bald man. The deck-
hand was standing near by, waiting. Even at
this distance Alex could see that Yassen was
very much in charge; that when he spoke, the
two men listened. Alex had once seen Yassen
shoot a man dead just
for dropping a

24/464
package. There was still an extraordinary
coldness about him that seemed to neutralize
even the Mediterranean sun. The strange
thing was that there were very few people in
the world who would have been able to re-
cognize the Russian. Alex was one of them.
Could Yassen’s being here have something to
do with him?

“Alex…?” Sabina said.
The three men moved away from the boat,
heading into the town. Suddenly Alex was on
his feet.

“I’ll be right back,” he said.
“Where are you going?”
“I need a drink.”
“I’ve got water.”
“No, I want a Coke.”
Even as he swept up his T-shirt and pulled
it over his head, Alex knew that this was not
a good idea. Yassen Gregorovich might have

25/464
come to the Camargue because he wanted a
holiday. He might have come to murder the
local mayor. Either way, it had nothing to do
with Alex and it would be crazy to get in-
volved with Yassen again. Alex remembered
the promise he had made the last time they
had met, on a rooftop in central London.

You killed Ian Rider. One day I’ll kill you.
At the time he had meant it – but that had
been then. Right now he didn’t want any-
thing to do with Yassen or the world he
represented.
And yet…
Yassen was here. He had to know why.
The three men were walking along the
main road, following the line of the sea. Alex
doubled back across the sand, passing the
white concrete bullring that had struck him
as bizarre when he’d first come here – until
he had remembered that he was only about a
hundred miles from Spain. There was to be a

tonight. People were

26/464
bullfight
already
queuing at the tiny windows to buy tickets,
but he and Sabina had decided they would
keep well clear. “I hope the bull wins,” had
been Sabina’s only comment.

Yassen and the two men turned left, disap-
pearing into the town centre. Alex quickened
his pace, knowing how easy it would be to
lose them in the tangle of lanes and alley-
ways that surrounded the church. He didn’t
have to be too careful about being seen.
Yassen thought he was safe. It was unlikely
that, in a crowded holiday resort, he would
notice anyone following him. But with
Yassen you never knew. Alex felt his heart
thumping with every step he took. His mouth
was dry, and for once it wasn’t the sun that
was to blame.

Yassen had gone. Alex looked left and
right. There were people crowding in on him
from all sides, pouring out of the shops and
into the open-air
restaurants that were

27/464
already serving lunch. The smell of paella
filled the air. He cursed himself for hanging
back, for not daring to get any closer. The
three men could have disappeared inside any
of the buildings. Could it be, even, that he
had imagined seeing them in the first place?
It was a pleasant thought, but it was dashed
a moment later when he caught sight of them
sitting on a terrace in front of one of the
smarter restaurants in the square, the bald
man already calling for menus.

Alex walked in front of a shop selling post-
cards, using the racks as a screen between
himself and the restaurant. Next came a café
serving snacks and drinks beneath wide,
multicoloured umbrellas. He edged into it.
Yassen and the other two men were now less
than ten metres away and Alex could make
out more details. The deckhand was pushing
bread into his mouth as if he hadn’t eaten for
a week. The bald man was talking quietly, ur-
gently, waving his fist in the air to emphasize

28/464
a point. Yassen was listening patiently. With
the noise of the crowd all around, Alex
couldn’t make out a word any of them were
saying. He peered round one of the umbrel-
las and a waiter almost collided with him,
letting loose a torrent of angry French.
Yassen glanced in his direction and Alex
ducked away, afraid that he had drawn at-
tention to himself.

A line of plants in wooden tubs divided the
café from the restaurant terrace where the
men were eating. Alex slipped between two
of the tubs and moved quickly into the shad-
ows of the restaurant interior. He felt safer
here, less exposed. The kitchens were right
behind him. To one side was a bar and in
front of it about a dozen tables, all of them
empty. Waiters were coming in and out with
plates of food, but all the customers had
chosen to eat outside.

Alex looked out through the door. And
caught his breath. Yassen had got up and

29/464
was walking purposefully towards him. Had
he been spotted? But
then he saw that
Yassen was holding something: a mobile
phone. He must have received a call and was
coming into the restaurant
to take it
privately. Another few steps and he would
reach the door. Alex looked around him and
saw an alcove screened by a bead curtain. He
pushed through it and found himself in a
storage area just big enough to conceal him.
Mops, buckets, cardboard boxes and empty
wine bottles crowded around him. The beads
shivered and became still.

Yassen was suddenly there.
“I arrived twenty minutes ago,” he was
saying. He was speaking English with only a
very slight trace of a Russian accent. “Franco
was waiting for me. The address is confirmed
and everything has been arranged.”

There was a pause. Alex tried not

to
breathe. He was centimetres away from
Yassen, separated only by the fragile barrier

30/464
of brightly coloured beads. But for the fact
that it was so dark inside after the glare of
the sun, Yassen would surely have seen him.
“We’ll do it this afternoon. You have noth-
ing to worry about. It is better for us not to
communicate. I will report to you on my re-
turn to England.”

Yassen Gregorovich clicked off the phone
and suddenly became quite still. Alex actu-
ally saw the moment, the sudden alertness as
some animal instinct told Yassen that he had
been overheard. The phone was still cradled
inside the man’s hand, but it could have been
a knife that he was about to throw. His head
was still but his eyes glanced from side to
side, searching for the enemy. Alex stayed
where he was behind the beads, not daring to
move. What should he do? He was tempted
to make a break for it, to run out into the
open air. No. He would be dead before he
had taken two steps. Yassen would kill him
before he even knew who he was or why he

31/464
had been there. Very slowly, Alex looked
around for a weapon, for anything to defend
himself with.

And then the kitchen door swung open
and a waiter came out, swerving round
Yassen and calling to someone at the same
time. The stillness of
the moment was
shattered. Yassen slipped the phone into his
trouser pocket and went out to rejoin the
other men.

Alex let out a huge sigh of relief.
What had he learnt?
Yassen Gregorovich had come here to kill
someone. He was sure of that much. The ad-
dress is confirmed and everything has been
arranged. But at least Alex hadn’t heard his
own name mentioned. So he was right. The
target was probably some Frenchman, living
here in Saint-Pierre. It would happen some-
time this afternoon. A gunshot or perhaps a
knife flashing in the sun. A fleeting moment

32/464
of violence and someone somewhere would
sit back, knowing they had one enemy less.

What could he do?
Alex pushed through the bead curtain and
made his way out of the back of the restaur-
ant. He was relieved to find himself in the
street, away from the square. Only now did
he try to collect his thoughts. He could go to
the police, of course. He could tell them that
he was a spy who had worked, three times
now, for MI6 – British military intelligence.
He could say that he had recognized Yassen,
knew him for what he was, and that a killing
would almost certainly take place that after-
noon unless he was stopped.

But what good would it do? The French
police might understand him, but they would
never believe him. He was a fourteen-year-
old English schoolboy with sand in his hair
and a suntan. They would take one look at
him and laugh.

33/464
He could go to Sabina and her parents. But
Alex didn’t want to do that either. He was
only here because they had invited him, and
why should he bring murder into their holi-
day? Not that they would believe him any
more than the police. Once, when he had
been staying with her in Cornwall, Alex had
tried to tell Sabina the truth. She had
thought he was joking.

Alex looked around at the tourist shops,
the ice-cream parlours, the crowds strolling
happily along the street. It was a typical
picture-postcard view. The real world. So
what the hell was he doing getting mixed up
again with spies and assassins? He was on
holiday. This was none of his business. Let
Yassen do whatever he wanted. Alex
wouldn’t be able to stop him even if he tried.
Better to forget that he had ever seen him.

Alex took a deep breath and walked back
down the road towards the beach to find Sa-
bina and her parents. As he went he tried to

34/464
work out what he would tell them: why he
had left so suddenly and why he was no
longer smiling now that he was back.

That afternoon, Alex and Sabina hitched a
lift with a local farmer to Aigues-Mortes, a
fortified town on the edge of
the salt
marshes. Sabina wanted to escape from her
parents and hang out in a French café, where
they could watch the locals and tourists rub
shoulders in the street. She had devised a
system for marking French teenagers for
good looks – with points lost for weedy legs,
crooked teeth or bad dress sense. Nobody
had yet scored more than seven out of twenty
and Alex would normally have been happy
sitting with her,
listening to her as she
laughed out loud.

But not this afternoon.
Everything was out of focus. The great
walls and towers that surrounded him were

35/464
miles away, and the sightseers seemed to be
moving too slowly, like a film that had run
down. Alex wanted to enjoy being here. He
wanted to feel part of the holiday again. But
seeing Yassen had spoilt it all.

Alex had met Sabina only a month before,
when the two of them had been helping at
the Wimbledon tennis tournament, but they
had struck up an immediate friendship. Sa-
bina was an only child. Her mother, Liz,
worked as a fashion designer; her father, Ed-
ward, was a journalist. Alex hadn’t seen very
much of him. He had started the holiday late,
coming down on the train from Paris, and
had been working on some story ever since.

The family had rented a house just outside
Saint-Pierre, right on the edge of a river, the
Petit Rhône. It was a simple place, typical of
the area: bright white with blue shutters and
a roof of sun-baked terracotta tiles. There
were three bedrooms and, on the ground
floor, an airy, old-fashioned kitchen that

36/464
opened onto an overgrown garden with a
swimming pool and a tennis court with
weeds pushing through the asphalt. Alex had
loved it from the start. His bedroom over-
looked the river, and every evening he and
Sabina had spent hours sprawled over an old
wicker sofa, talking quietly and watching the
water ripple past.

The first week of the holiday had disap-
peared in a flash. They had swum in the pool
and in the sea, which was less than a mile
away. They had gone walking, climbing, ca-
noeing and, once (it wasn’t Alex’s favourite
sport), horse-riding. Alex really liked Sa-
bina’s parents. They were the sort of adults
who hadn’t forgotten that they had once
been teenagers themselves, and more or less
left him and Sabina to do whatever they
wanted on their own. And for the last seven
days everything had been fine.

Until Yassen.

37/464
The address is confirmed and everything
this

has been arranged. We’ll do it
afternoon…

What was the Russian planning to do in
Saint-Pierre? What bad luck was it that had
brought him here, casting his shadow once
again over Alex’s life? Despite the heat of the
afternoon sun, Alex shivered.

“Alex?”
He realized that Sabina had been talking
to him, and looked round. She was gazing
across the table with a look of concern.
“What are you thinking about?” she asked.
“You were miles away.”

“Nothing.”
“You haven’t been yourself all afternoon.
Did something happen this morning? Where
did you disappear to on the beach?”

“I told you. I just needed a drink.” He
hated having to lie to her but he couldn’t tell
her the truth.

38/464
“I was just saying we ought to get going. I
promised we’d be home by five. Oh my God!
Look at that one!” She pointed at another
teenager walking past. “Four out of twenty.
Aren’t
in
France?” She glanced at Alex. “Apart from
you, I mean.”

there any good-looking boys

“So how many do I get out of twenty?”

Alex asked.

Sabina considered. “Twelve and a half,”
she said at last. “But don’t worry, Alex.
Another ten years and you’ll be perfect.”

Sometimes horror announces itself in the
smallest of ways.

On this day it was a single police car, ra-
cing along the wide, empty road that twisted
down to Saint-Pierre. Alex and Sabina were
sitting in the back of the same truck that had
brought them. They were looking at a herd of
cows grazing in one of the fields when the

39/464
police car – blue and white with a light flash-
ing on the roof – overtook them and tore off
into the distance. Alex still had Yassen on his
mind and the sight of it tightened the knot in
the pit of his stomach. But it was only a po-
lice car. It didn’t have to mean anything.

But then there was a helicopter, taking off
from somewhere not so far away and arcing
into the brilliant sky. Sabina saw it and poin-
ted at it.

“Something’s happened,” she said. “That’s

just come from the town.”

Had the helicopter come from the town?
Alex wasn’t so sure. He watched it sweep
over them and disappear in the direction of
Aigues-Mortes, and all the time his breaths
were getting shorter and he felt the heavy
weight of some nameless dread.

And then they turned a corner and Alex
knew that his worst fears had come true –

40/464
in a way that he could never have

but
foreseen.
Rubble,

jagged brickwork and twisted
steel. Thick black smoke curling into the sky.
Their house had been blown apart. Just one
wall remained intact, giving the cruel illusion
that not too much damage had been done.
But the rest of it was gone. Alex saw a brass
bed hanging at a crazy angle, somehow sus-
pended in mid-air. A pair of blue shutters lay
in the grass about fifty metres away. The wa-
ter in the swimming pool was brown and
scummy. The
been
immense.

blast must have

A fleet of cars and vans was parked around
the building. They belonged to the police, the
hospital, the fire department and the anti-
terrorist squad. To Alex they didn’t look real:
more like brightly coloured toys. In a foreign
country, nothing looks more foreign than its
emergency services.

“Mum! Dad!”

41/464
Alex heard Sabina shout the words and
saw her leap out of the truck before they had
stopped moving. Then she was running
across the gravel drive,
forcing her way
between the officials in their different uni-
forms. The truck stopped and Alex climbed
down, unsure whether his feet would come
into contact with the ground or if he would
simply go on, right through it. His head was
spinning; he thought he was going to faint.

Nobody spoke to him as he continued for-
ward. It was as if he wasn’t there at all.
Ahead of him he saw Sabina’s mother appear
from nowhere, her face streaked with ashes
and tears, and he thought to himself that if
she was all right, if she had been out of the
house when the explosion happened, then
maybe Edward Pleasure had escaped too.
But then he saw Sabina begin to shake and
fall into her mother’s arms, and he knew the
worst.

He drew nearer,

42/464
in time to hear Liz’s

words as she clutched hold of her daughter.

“We still don’t know what happened. Dad’s
been taken by helicopter to Montpellier. He’s
alive, Sabina, but he’s badly injured. We’re
going to him now. You know your dad’s a
fighter. But the doctors aren’t sure if he’s go-
ing to make it or not. We just don’t know…”

The smell of burning reached out to Alex
and engulfed him. The smoke had blotted
out the sun. His eyes began to water and he
fought for breath.

This was his fault.
He didn’t know why it had happened but

he was utterly certain who was responsible.

Yassen Gregorovich.
None of my business. That was what Alex

had thought. This was the result.

THE FINGER ON THE TRIGGER

The policeman facing Alex was young, inex-
perienced, and struggling to find the right
words. It wasn’t just that he was having diffi-
culty with the English language, Alex real-
ized. Down here in this odd, quiet corner of
France, the worst he would usually have to
deal with would be the occasional drunk
driver or maybe a tourist losing his wallet on
the beach. This was a new situation and he
was completely out of his depth.

“It is the most terrible affair,” he was say-
ing. “You have known Monsieur Pleasure
very long time?”

“No. Not very long time,” Alex said.
“He will receive the best treatment.” The
policeman smiled encouragingly. “Madame

44/464
Pleasure and her daughter are going now to
hospital but they have requested us to oc-
cupy us with you.”

Alex was sitting on a folding chair in the
shadow of a tree. It was just after five o’clock
but the sun was still hot. The river flowed
past a few metres away and he would have
given anything to dive into the water and
swim, and keep swimming, until he had put
this whole business behind him.

Sabina and her mother had left about ten
minutes ago and now he was on his own with
this young policeman. He had been given a
chair in the shade and a bottle of water, but
it was obvious that nobody knew what to do
with him. This wasn’t his family. He had no
right to be here. More officials had turned
up: senior policemen, senior firemen. They
were moving slowly through the wreckage,
occasionally turning over a plank of wood or
moving a piece of broken furniture as if they

45/464
might uncover the one simple clue that
would tell them why this had taken place.

“We have telephoned to your consul,” the
policeman was saying. “They will come to
take you home. But they must send a repres-
entative from Lyon. It is a long way. So to-
night you must wait here in Saint-Pierre.”

“I know who did this,” Alex said.
“Comment?”
“I know who was

responsible.” Alex
glanced in the direction of the house. “You
have to go into the town. There is a yacht tied
to the jetty. I didn’t see the name but you
can’t miss it. It’s huge … white. There’s a
man on the yacht; his name is Yassen
Gregorovich. You have to arrest him before
he can get away.”

The policeman stared at Alex, astonished.
had

how much

Alex wondered
understood.

he

46/464
“I am sorry? What is it that you say? This

man, Yassen…”

“Yassen Gregorovich.”
“You know him?”
“Yes.”
“Who is he?”
“He’s a killer. He is paid to kill people. I

saw him this morning.”

“Please!” The policeman held up a hand.
He didn’t want to listen to any more. “Wait
here.”

Alex watched him walk away towards the
parked cars, presumably to find a senior of-
ficer. He took a sip of water, then stood up
himself. He didn’t want to sit here watching
the events from a folding chair like a picnick-
er. He walked towards the house. There was
an evening breeze but the smell of burnt
wood still hung heavily all around. A scrap of
paper, scorched and blackened, blew across

47/464
the gravel. On an impulse, Alex reached
down and picked it up.

He read:

That was all there was. The paper turned
black and the words disappeared.

Alex realized what he was looking at. It
must be a page from the article that Edward
Pleasure had been working on ever since he

48/464
had arrived at the house. Something to do
with the mega-celebrity Damian Cray…

“Excusez-moi, jeune homme…”
He looked up and saw that the policeman
had returned with a second man, this one a
few years older, with a downturned mouth
and a small moustache. Alex’s heart sank. He
recognized the type before the man had even
spoken. Oily and self-important, and wear-
ing a uniform that was too neat, there was
disbelief etched all over his face.

“You have something to tell us?” he asked.

He spoke better English than his colleague.

Alex repeated what he had said.
“How do you know about this man? The

man on the boat.”

“He killed my uncle.”
“Who was your uncle?”
“He was a spy. He worked for MI6.” Alex
took a deep breath. “I think I may have been

49/464
the target of the bomb. I think he was trying
to kill me…”

The two policemen spoke briefly together,
then turned back to Alex. Alex knew what
was coming. The senior policeman had re-
arranged his features so that he now looked
down at Alex with a mixture of kindness and
concern. But there was arrogance there too: I
am right. You are wrong. And nothing will
persuade me otherwise. He was like a bad
teacher in a bad school, putting a cross be-
side a right answer.

“You have had a terrible shock,” the po-
liceman said. “The explosion … we already
know that it was caused by a leak in the gas
pipe.”

“No…” Alex shook his head.
The policeman held up a hand. “There is
no reason why an assassin would wish to
harm a family on holiday. But I understand.
You are upset; it is quite possible that you

50/464
are in shock. You do not know what it is you
are saying.”
“Please—”
“We have sent for someone from your con-
sulate and he will arrive soon. Until then it
would be better if you did not interfere.”

Alex hung his head. “Do you mind if I go
for a walk?” he said. The words came out low
and muffled.
“A walk?”
“Just five minutes. I want to be on my

own.”

“Of course. Do not go too far. Would you

like someone to accompany you?”

“No. I’ll be all right.”
He turned and walked away. He had
avoided meeting the policemen’s eyes and
they doubtless thought he was ashamed of
himself. That was all right. Alex didn’t want
them to see his fury, the black anger that

51/464
coursed through him like an arctic river.
They hadn’t believed him! They had treated
him like a stupid child!

With every step he took, images stamped
themselves on his mind. Sabina’s eyes
widening as she took in the wreck of the
house. Edward Pleasure being flown to some
city hospital. Yassen Gregorovich on the deck
of his yacht, gliding off into the sunset, an-
other job done. And it was Alex’s fault! That
was the worst of it. That was the unforgiv-
able part. Well, he wasn’t going to sit there
and take it. Alex allowed his rage to carry
him forward. It was time to take control.

When he reached the main road, he
glanced back. The policemen had forgotten
him. He took one last look at the burnt-out
shell that had been his holiday home, and
the darkness rose up in him again. He turned
away and began to run.

Saint-Pierre was just under a mile away. It
was early evening by the time he arrived

52/464
there and the streets were packed with
people in a festive mood. In fact, the town
seemed busier
than ever. Then he re-
membered. There was a bullfight tonight and
people had driven in from all around to
watch it.

The sun was already dipping behind the
horizon but daylight still lingered in the air
as if accidentally left behind. The street
lamps were lit, throwing garish pools of or-
ange onto the sandy pavements. An old ca-
rousel turned round and round, a spinning
blur of electric bulbs and jangling music.
Alex made his way through it all without
stopping. Suddenly he was on the other side
of the town and the streets were quiet again.
The night had advanced and everything was
a little more grey.

He hadn’t expected to see the yacht. At the
back of his mind he had thought that Yassen
would have left long ago. But there it still
was, moored where he had seen it earlier

53/464
that day, a lifetime ago. There was nobody in
sight. It seemed that the whole town had
gone to the bullfight. Then a figure stepped
out of the darkness and Alex saw the bald
man with the sunburn. He was still dressed
in the white suit. He was smoking a cigar, the
smouldering tip casting a red glow across his
face.

There were lights glinting behind the
portholes of the boat. Would he find Yassen
behind one of them? Alex had no real idea
what he was doing. Anger was still driving
him blindly on. All he knew was that he had
to get onto the yacht and that nothing was
going to stop him.

The man’s name was Franco. He had stepped
down onto the jetty because Yassen hated
the smell of cigar smoke. He didn’t like
Yassen. More than that; he was afraid of
him. When the Russian had heard that

54/464
Edward Pleasure had been injured, not
killed, he had said nothing, but there had
been something intense and ugly in his eyes.
For a moment he had looked at Raoul, the
deckhand. It had been Raoul who had actu-
ally placed the bomb … too far from the
journalist’s room, as it turned out. The mis-
take was his. And Franco knew that Yassen
had very nearly killed him there and then.
Perhaps he still would. God – what a mess!

Franco heard a shoe scraping against loose
rubble and saw a boy walking towards him.
He was slim and suntanned, wearing shorts
and a faded Stone Age T-shirt, with a string
of wooden beads around his neck. He had
fair hair which hung in strands over his fore-
head. He must be a tourist – he looked Eng-
lish. But what was he doing here?

Alex had wondered how close he could get
to the man before his suspicions were
aroused. If it had been an adult approaching
the boat,
it would have been a different

55/464
matter; the fact that he was only fourteen
was the main reason he had been so useful to
MI6. People didn’t notice him until it was too
late.

That was what happened now. As the boy
came closer, Franco was struck by the dark
brown eyes set in a face that was somehow
too serious for a boy of that age. They were
eyes that had seen too much.

Alex drew level with Franco. At that mo-
ment, he lashed out, spinning round on the
ball of his left foot, kicking with the right.
Franco was taken completely by surprise.
Alex’s heel struck him hard in the stomach –
but straight away Alex knew that he had un-
derestimated his opponent. He had expected
to feel soft fat beneath the flapping suit. But
his foot had slammed into a ring of muscle,
and although Franco was hurt and winded,
he hadn’t been brought down.

Franco dropped the cigar and lunged, his
hand already scrabbling in his jacket pocket.

56/464
It came out holding something. There was a
soft click and seven inches of glinting silver
leapt out of nowhere. He had a flick knife.
Moving much faster than Alex would have
thought possible, he launched himself across
the jetty. His hand swung in an arc. Alex
heard the blade slicing the air. He swung
again, and the knife flashed past Alex’s face,
missing him by a centimetre.

Alex was unarmed. Franco had obviously
used the knife many times before, and if he
hadn’t been weakened by the first kick, this
fight would already have been over. Alex
looked around, searching for anything he
could defend himself with. There was almost
nothing on the jetty – just a few old boxes, a
bucket, a fisherman’s net. Franco was mov-
ing more slowly now. He was fighting a kid –
nothing more. The little brat might have sur-
prised him with that first attack, but it would
be easy enough to bring this to an end.

57/464
He muttered a few words in French:
something low and ugly. Then, a second
later, his fist swung through the air, this time
carrying the knife in an upward arc that
would have cut Alex’s throat if he hadn’t
thrown himself backwards.

Alex cried out.
He had lost his footing, falling heavily onto
his back, one arm outstretched. Franco
grinned,
showing two gold teeth, and
stepped towards him, anxious to finish this
off. Too late he saw that he had been tricked.
Alex’s hand had caught hold of the net. As
Franco loomed over him, he sprang up,
swinging his arm forward with all his
strength. The net spread out, falling over
Franco’s head, shoulder and knife hand. He
swore and twisted round, trying to free him-
self, but the movement only entangled him
all the more.

Alex knew he had to finish this quickly.
Franco was still struggling with the net but

58/464
Alex saw him open his mouth to call for help.
They were right next to the yacht. If Yassen
heard anything,
there would be nothing
more Alex could do. He took aim and kicked
a second time, his foot driving into the man’s
stomach. The breath was knocked out of
him; Alex saw his face turn red. He was half
out of the net, performing a bizarre dance on
the edge of the jetty, when he lost his balance
and fell. With his hands trapped he couldn’t
protect himself. His head hit the concrete
with a loud crack and he lay still.

Alex stood, breathing heavily. In the dis-
tance he heard a trumpet blare and there was
a scattered round of applause. The bullfight
was due to begin in ten minutes. A small
band had arrived and was about to play. Alex
looked at the unconscious man, knowing he
had had a close escape. There was no sign of
the knife; maybe it had fallen into the water.
Briefly he wondered if he should go on. Then
he thought of Sabina and her father, and the

59/464
next thing he knew he had climbed the gang-
plank and was standing on the deck.

The boat was called Fer de Lance. Alex no-
ticed the name as he climbed up, and re-
membered seeing it somewhere else. That
was it! It was on a school trip to London Zoo.
It was some sort of snake. Poisonous, of
course.

He was standing in a wide area with a
steering wheel and controls next to a door on
one side and leather sofas across the back.
There was a low table. The bald man must
have been sitting here before he went down
for his
smoke. Alex saw a crumpled
magazine, a bottle of beer, a mobile phone
and a gun.

He recognized the telephone.

It was
Yassen’s. He had seen it in the Russian’s
hand back at the restaurant earlier that day.
The phone was an odd colour – a shade of
brown – otherwise Alex might have ignored

60/464
it. But now he noticed that it was still turned
on. He picked it up.

Alex quickly scrolled to the main menu
and then to Call Register. He found what he
was looking for: a record of all the calls
Yassen had received that day. At 12.53 he
had been talking to a number that began
44207. The 44 was England; the 207 meant
it was somewhere in London. That was the
call Alex had overheard in the restaurant.
Quickly he memorized the number. It was
the number of the person who had given
Yassen his orders. It would tell him all he
needed to know.

He picked up the gun.
He finally had it. Each time he had worked
for MI6 he had asked them to give him a
gun, and each time they had refused. They
had supplied him with gadgets – but only
tranquillizer darts, stun grenades, smoke
bombs. Nothing that would kill. Alex felt the
power of the weapon he was holding. He

61/464
weighed it in his hand. The gun was a Grach
MP-443, black, with a short muzzle and a
ribbed stock. It was Russian, of course, new
army issue. He allowed his finger to curl
around the trigger and smiled grimly. Now
he and Yassen were equals.

He padded forward, went

through the
door and climbed down a short flight of
stairs that went below deck and into a cor-
ridor that seemed to run the length of the
boat, with cabins on either side. He had seen
a lounge above but he knew that it was
empty. There had been no lights behind
those windows. If Yassen was anywhere, he
would be down here. Clutching the Grach
more tightly, he crept along, his feet making
no sound on the thickly carpeted floor.

He came to a door and saw a yellow strip
of light seeping out of the crack below. Grit-
ting his teeth, he reached for the handle, half
hoping it would be locked. The handle
turned and the door opened. Alex went in.

62/464
The cabin was surprisingly large, a long
rectangle with a white carpet and modern
wooden fittings along two of the walls. The
third wall was taken up by a low double bed
with a table and a lamp on each side. There
was a man stretched out on the white cover,
his eyes closed, as still as a corpse. Alex
stepped forward. There was no sound in the
room, but in the distance he could hear the
band playing at the bullring: two or three
trumpets, a tuba and a drum.

Yassen Gregorovich made no movement as
Alex approached, the gun held out in front of
him. Alex reached the side of the bed. This
was the closest he had ever been to the Rus-
sian, the man who had killed his uncle. He
could see every detail of his face: the chis-
elled lips, the almost feminine eyelashes. The
gun was only a centimetre from Yassen’s
forehead. This was where it ended. All he
had to do was pull the trigger and it would be
over.

63/464

“Good evening, Alex.”
It wasn’t that Yassen had woken up. His
eyes had been closed and now they weren’t.
It was as simple as that. His face hadn’t
changed. He knew who Alex was immedi-
ately, at the same time taking in the gun that
was pointing at him. Taking it in and accept-
ing it.

Alex said nothing. There was a slight
tremble in the hand holding the gun and he
brought his other hand up to steady it.

“You have my gun,” Yassen said.
Alex took a breath.
“Do you intend to use it?”
Nothing.
Yassen continued calmly. “I think you
should consider very carefully. Killing a man
is not like you see on the television. If you
pull that trigger, you will fire a real bullet in-
to real flesh and blood. I will feel nothing; I

64/464
will be dead instantly. But you will live with
what you have done for the rest of your life.
You will never forget it.”

He paused, letting his words hang in the

air.

“Do you really have it in you, Alex? Can
you make your finger obey you? Can you kill
me?”

Alex was rigid, a statue. All his concentra-
tion was focused on the finger curled around
the trigger. It was simple. There was a spring
mechanism. The trigger would pull back the
hammer and release it. The hammer would
strike the bullet, a piece of death just nine-
teen millimetres long, sending it on its short,
fast journey into this man’s head. He could
do it.

“Maybe you have forgotten what I once
told you. This isn’t your life. This has nothing
to do with you.”

65/464
Yassen was totally relaxed. There was no
emotion in his voice. He seemed to know
Alex better than Alex knew himself. Alex
tried to look away, to avoid the calm blue
eyes that were watching him with something
like pity.

“Why did you do it?” Alex demanded. “You

blew up the house. Why?”

The eyes flickered briefly. “Because I was

paid.”

“Paid to kill me?”
“No, Alex.” For a moment Yassen sounded
almost amused. “It had nothing to do with
you.”

“Then who—”
But it was too late.
He saw it in Yassen’s eyes first, knew that
the Russian had been keeping him distracted
as the cabin door opened quietly behind him.
A pair of hands seized him and he was swung

66/464
violently away from the bed. He saw Yassen
whip aside as fast as a snake – as fast as a fer
de lance. The gun went off, but Alex hadn’t
fired it intentionally and the bullet smashed
into the floor. He hit a wall and felt the gun
drop out of his hand. He could taste blood in
his mouth. The yacht seemed to be swaying.

In the far distance a fanfare sounded, fol-
lowed by an echoing roar from the crowd.
The bullfight had begun.

MATADOR

Alex sat listening to the three men who
would decide his fate, trying to understand
what they were saying. They were speaking
French, but with an almost impenetrable
Marseilles accent – and they were using gut-
ter language, not the sort he had learnt.

He had been dragged up to the main sa-
loon and was slumped in a wide leather arm-
chair. By now Alex had managed to work out
what had happened. The deckhand, Raoul,
had come back from the town with supplies
and found Franco lying unconscious on the
jetty. He had hurried on board to alert
Yassen and had overheard him talking to
Alex. It had been Raoul, of course, who had

68/464
crept into the cabin and grabbed Alex from
behind.

Franco was sitting in a corner, his face dis-
torted with anger and hatred. There was a
dark mauve bruise on his forehead where he
had hit the ground. When he spoke, his
words dripped poison.

“Give me the little brat. I will kill him per-
sonally and then drop him over the side for
the fish.”

“How did he find us, Yassen?” This was
Raoul speaking. “How did he know who we
are?”

“Why are we wasting our time with him?

Let me finish him now.”

Alex glanced at Yassen. So far the Russian
had said nothing, although it was clear he
was still
in charge. There was something
curious about the way he was looking at
Alex. The empty blue eyes gave nothing away
and yet Alex felt he was being appraised. It

69/464
was as if Yassen had known him a long time
and had expected to meet him again.

Yassen lifted a hand for silence, then went
over to Alex. “How did you know you would
find us here?” he asked.

Alex said nothing. A flicker of annoyance
passed across the Russian’s face. “You are
only alive because I permit it. Please don’t
make me ask you a second time.”

Alex shrugged. He had nothing to lose.
They were probably going to kill him any-
way. “I was on holiday,” he said. “I was on
the beach. I saw you on the yacht when it
came in.”

“You are not with MI6?”
“No.”
“But you followed me to the restaurant.”
“That’s right.” Alex nodded.

70/464
Yassen half smiled to himself. “I thought
there was someone.” Then he was serious
again. “You were staying in the house.”

“I was invited by a friend,” Alex said. A
thought suddenly occurred to him. “Her
dad’s a journalist. Was he the one you
wanted to kill?”

“That is none of your business.”
“It is now.”
“It was bad luck you were staying with
him, Alex. I’ve already told you. It was noth-
ing personal.”

“Sure.” Alex looked Yassen straight in the

eye. “With you it never is.”

Yassen went back over to the two men and
at once Franco began to jabber again, spit-
ting out his words. He had poured himself a
whisky which he downed in a single swallow,
his eyes never leaving Alex.

71/464
“The boy knows nothing and he can’t hurt
us,” Yassen said. He was speaking in English
– for his benefit, Alex guessed.

“What you do with him?” Raoul asked, fol-

lowing in clumsy English too.
“Kill him!” This was Franco.
“I do not kill children,” Yassen replied, and
Alex knew that he was telling only half the
truth. The bomb in the house could have
killed anyone who happened to be there and
Yassen wouldn’t have cared.

“Have you gone mad?” Franco had slipped
back into French. “You can’t just let him
walk away from here. He came to kill you. If
it hadn’t been for Raoul, he might have
succeeded.”

“Maybe.” Yassen studied Alex one last
time. Finally he came to a decision. “You
were unwise to come here, little Alex,” he
said. “These people think I should silence
you and they are right. If I thought it was

72/464
anything but chance that brought you to me,
if there was anything that you knew, you
would already be dead. But I am a reason-
able man. You did not kill me when you had
the chance, so now I will give you a chance
too.”

He spoke rapidly to Franco in French. At
first Franco seemed sullen, argumentative.
But as Yassen continued, Alex saw a smile
spread slowly across his face.

“How will we arrange this?” Franco asked.
“You know people. You have influence.

You just have to pay the right people.”

“The boy will be killed.”
“Then you will have your wish.”
“Good!” Franco spat. “I’ll enjoy watching!”
Yassen came over to Alex and stopped just
a short distance away. “You have courage,
Alex,” he said. “I admire that in you. Now I
am going to give you the opportunity to

73/464
display it.” He nodded at Franco. “Take
him!”

It was nine o’clock. The night had rolled in
over Saint-Pierre, bringing with it the threat
of a summer storm. The air was still and
heavy and thick cloud had blotted out the
stars.

Alex stood on sandy ground in the shad-
ows of a concrete archway, unable to take in
what was happening to him. He had been
forced, at gunpoint, to change his holiday
clothes for a uniform so bizarre that, but for
his knowledge of the danger he was about to
face, he would have felt simply ridiculous.

First there had been a white shirt and a
black tie. Then came a jacket with shoulder
pads hanging over his arms and a pair of
trousers that fitted tight around his thighs
and waist but stopped well short of his
ankles. Both of these were covered in gold

74/464
sequins and thousands of tiny pearls, so that
as Alex moved in and out of the light he be-
came a miniature fireworks display. Finally
he had been given black shoes, an odd,
curving black hat, and a bright red cape
which was folded over his arm.

The uniform had a name. Traje de luces.
The suit of lights worn by matadors in the
bullring. This was the test of courage that
Yassen had somehow arranged. He wanted
Alex to fight a bull.

the

least

Now he stood next to Alex, listening to the
noise of the crowd inside the arena. At a typ-
ical bullfight, he had explained, six bulls are
killed. The third of these is sometimes taken
by
a
novillero, a young man who might be in the
ring for the first time. There had been no
novillero on the programme tonight … not
until the Russian had suggested otherwise.
Money had changed hands. And Alex had
been prepared. It was insane – but the crowd

experienced matador,

75/464
would love him. Once he was inside the
arena, nobody would know that he had never
been trained. He would be a tiny figure in the
middle of the floodlit ring. His clothes would
disguise the truth. Nobody would see that he
was only fourteen.

There was an eruption of shouting and
cheering inside the arena. Alex guessed that
the matador had just killed the second bull.

“Why are you doing this?” Alex asked.
Yassen shrugged. “I’m doing you a favour,

Alex.”

“I don’t see it that way.”
“Franco wanted to put a knife in you. It
was hard to dissuade him. In the end I
offered him a little entertainment. As it hap-
pens, he greatly admires this sport. This way
he gets amused and you get a choice.”

“A choice?”

76/464
“You might say it is a choice between the

bull and the bullet.”

“Either way I get killed.”
“Yes. That is the most likely outcome, I’m
afraid. But at least you will have a heroic
death. A thousand people will be watching
you. Their voices will be the last thing you
hear.”

“Better than hearing yours,” Alex growled.
And suddenly it was time.
Two men in jeans and black shirts ran for-
ward and opened a gate. It was like a wooden
curtain being drawn across a stage and it re-
vealed a fantastic scene behind. First there
was the arena itself, an elongated circle of
bright yellow sand. As Yassen had promised,
it was surrounded by a thousand people,
tightly packed in tiers. They were eating and
drinking, many of them waving programmes
in front of their faces, trying to shift the slug-
gish air, jostling and talking. Although all of

77/464
them were seated, none of them were still. In
the far corner a band played, five men in mil-
itary uniforms, looking like antique toys. The
glare from the spotlights was dazzling.

Empty, the arena was modern, ugly and
dead. But filled to the brim on this hot Medi-
terranean night, Alex could feel the energy
buzzing through it, and he realized that all
the cruelty of the Romans with their gladiat-
ors and wild animals had survived the cen-
turies and was fully alive here.

A tractor drove towards the gate where
Alex was standing, dragging behind it a mis-
shapen black lump that had until seconds
ago been a proud and living thing. About a
dozen brightly coloured spears dangled out
of the creature’s back. As it drew nearer, Alex
saw that it was leaving a comma of glistening
red in the sand. He felt sick, and wondered if
it was fear of what was to come or disgust
and hatred of what had been. He and Sabina
had agreed that
they would never in a

78/464
million years go to a bullfight. He certainly
hadn’t expected to break that promise so
soon.

Yassen nodded at him. “Remember,” he
said, “Raoul, Franco and I will be beside the
barrera – that’s right at the side of the ring.
If you fail to perform, if you try to run, we
will gun you down and disappear into the
night.” He raised his shirt to show Alex the
Grach, tucked into his waistband. “But if you
agree to fight, after ten minutes we will
leave. If by some miracle you are still stand-
ing, you can do as you please. You see? I am
giving you a chance.”

The trumpets sounded again, announcing
the next fight. Alex felt a hand press into the
small of his back and he walked forward,
giddy with disbelief. How had this been al-
lowed to happen? Surely someone would see
that underneath the fancy dress he was just
an English schoolboy, not a matador or a

79/464
novillero or whatever it was called. Someone
would have to stop the fight.

But the spectators were already shouting
their approval. A few flowers rained down in
his direction. Nobody could see the truth and
Franco had paid enough money to make sure
they didn’t find out until it was too late. He
had to go through with this. His heart was
thumping. The smell of blood and animal
sweat rose in his nostrils. He was more
afraid than he had ever been.

and

buttons

A man in an elaborate black silk suit with
mother-of-pearl
sweeping
shoulders stood up in the crowd and raised a
white handkerchief. This was the president
of the bullring, giving the signal for the next
fight. The trumpets sounded. Another gate
opened and the bull that Alex was to fight
thundered into the ring like a bullet fired
from a gun. Alex stared. The creature was
huge – a mass of black, shimmering muscle.
It must have weighed seven or eight hundred

80/464
kilograms. If it ran into him, it would be like
being run over by a bus – except that he
would be impaled first on the horns that
corkscrewed out of its head, tapering to two
lethal points. Right now it was ignoring Alex,
running madly in a jagged circle, kicking out
with its back legs, enraged by the lights and
the shouting crowd.

Alex wondered why he hadn’t been given a
sword. Didn’t matadors have anything to de-
fend themselves with? There was a spear ly-
ing on the sand, left over from the last fight.
This was a banderilla. It was about a metre
long with a decorated, multicoloured handle
and a short, barbed hook. Dozens of these
would be plunged into the bull’s neck, des-
troying its muscles and weakening it before
the final kill. Alex himself would be given a
spear as the fight continued, but he had
already made
decision. Whatever
happened, he would try not to hurt the bull.
After all, it hadn’t chosen to be here either.

a

81/464
He had to escape. The gates had been
closed but the wooden wall enclosing the
arena – the barrera, as Yassen had called it
– was no taller than he was. He could run
and jump over it. He glanced at the wall
where he had just come in. Franco had taken
his place in the front row. His hand was un-
derneath his jacket and Alex had no doubt
what it was holding. He could make out
Yassen at the far end. Raoul was over to his
right. Between them the three men had the
whole ring covered.

He had to fight. Somehow he had to sur-
vive ten minutes. Maybe there were only
nine minutes now. It felt as if an eternity had
passed since he had entered the ring.

The crowd fell silent. A thousand faces

waited for him to make his move.

Then the bull noticed him.
Suddenly it
stopped its

circling and
lumbered towards him, coming to a halt

82/464
about twenty metres away, its head low and
its horns pointing at him. Alex knew with a
sick certainty that it was about to charge. Re-
luctantly he allowed the red cape to drop so
that it hung down to the sand. God – he
must look an idiot in this costume, with no
idea what he was meant to be doing. He was
surprised the fight hadn’t been stopped
already. But Yassen and the two men would
be watching his every move. Franco would
need only the smallest excuse to draw his
gun. Alex had to play his part.

Silence. The heat of the coming storm

pressed down on him. Nothing moved.

The bull charged. Alex was shocked by the
sudden transformation. The bull had been
static and distant. Now it was bearing down
on him as if a switch had been thrown, its
massive shoulders heaving, its every muscle
concentrated on the target that stood wait-
ing, unarmed, alone. The animal was near
enough now for Alex to be able to see its

83/464
eyes: black, white and red, bloodshot and
furious.

Everything happened very quickly. The
bull was almost on top of him. The vicious
horns were plunging towards his stomach.
The stench of the animal smothered him.
Alex leapt aside, at the same time lifting the
cape, imitating moves he had seen … perhaps
on television or in the cinema. He actually
felt the bull brush past, and in that tiny con-
tact sensed its huge power and strength.
There was a flash of red as the cape flew up.
The whole arena seemed to spin, the crowd
rising up and yelling. The bull had gone past.
Alex was unhurt.

Although he didn’t know it, Alex had ex-
ecuted a reasonable imitation of the verón-
ica. This is the first and most simple move-
ment in a bullfight, but it gives the matador
vital
its
speed, its strength, which horn it favours.
But Alex had learnt only two things.

information about his opponent:

84/464
Matadors were braver than he thought – in-
sanely brave to do this out of choice! And he
also knew he was going to be very lucky to
survive a second attack.

The bull had stopped at the far end of the
ring. It shook its head, and grey strings of
saliva whipped from either side of its mouth.
All around, the spectators were still clapping.
Alex saw Yassen Gregorovich sitting among
them. He alone was still, not joining in the
applause. Grimly, Alex let the cape hang
down a second time, wondering how many
minutes had passed. He no longer had any
sense of time.

He actually felt the crowd catch its breath
as the bull began its second attack. It was
moving even faster this time,
its hooves
pounding on the sand. The horns were once
again levelled at him. If they hit him, they
would cut him in half.

At the very last moment, Alex stepped
aside, repeating the movement he had made

85/464
before. But this time the bull had been ex-
pecting it. Although it was advancing too fast
to change direction, it flicked its head and
Alex felt a searing pain along the side of his
stomach. He was
feet,
cartwheeling backwards and crashing down
onto the sand. A roar exploded from the
crowd. Alex waited for the bull to turn round
and lay into him. But he had been lucky. The
animal hadn’t seen him go down. It had con-
tinued its run to the other side of the arena,
leaving him alone.

thrown off his

Alex got to his feet. He put a hand down to
his stomach. The jacket had been ripped
open and when he took his hand away there
was bright red blood on his palm. He was
winded and shaken, and the side of his body
felt as if it were on fire. But the cut wasn’t too
deep. In a way, Alex was disappointed. If he
had been more badly hurt, they would have
had to stop the fight.

86/464
Out of the corner of his eye he saw a move-
ment. Yassen had stood up and was walking
out. Had the ten minutes passed or had the
Russian decided that the entertainment was
over and that there was no point staying to
watch the bloody end? Alex checked around
the arena. Raoul was leaving too. But Franco
was staying in his seat. The man was in the
front row, only about ten metres away. And
he was smiling. Yassen had tricked him.
Franco was going to stay there. Even if Alex
did manage to escape the bull, Franco would
take out his gun and finish it himself.

Weakly Alex leant down and picked up the
cape. The material had got torn in the last
encounter and it gave Alex a sudden idea.
Everything was in its right place: the cape,
the bull, the single banderilla, Franco.

Ignoring the pain in his side, he started to
run. The audience muttered and then roared
in disbelief. It was the bull’s job to attack the
matador, but suddenly, in front of them, it

87/464
seemed to be happening the other way
round. Even the bull was taken unawares, re-
garding Alex as if he had forgotten the rules
of the game or decided to cheat. Before it had
a chance to move, Alex threw the cape. There
was a short wooden handle sewn into the
cloth and the weight of it carried the whole
thing forward so that it landed perfectly –
over the creature’s eyes. The bull tried to
shake the cloth free, but one of its horns had
passed through the hole. It snorted angrily
and stamped at the ground. But the cape
stayed in place.

Everyone was shouting now. Half the spec-
tators had risen to their feet and the presid-
ent was looking around him helplessly. Alex
ran and snatched up the banderilla, noticing
the ugly hook, stained red with the blood of
the last bull. In a single movement he swung
it round and threw it.

His target wasn’t the bull. Franco had star-
ted to rise out of his seat as soon as he’d

in Franco’s

88/464
realized what Alex was about to do; his hand
was already scrabbling for his gun. But he
was too late. Either Alex had been lucky or
sheer desperation had perfected his aim. The
banderilla turned once in the air, then bur-
ied itself
shoulder. Franco
screamed. The point wasn’t long enough to
kill him, but the barbed hook kept the ban-
derilla in place, making it impossible to pull
out. Blood spread along the sleeve of his suit.
The whole arena was in an uproar. The
crowd had never seen anything like this. Alex
continued running. He saw the bull free itself
from the red cape. It was already searching
for him, determined to take its revenge.

Take your

revenge another day, Alex

thought. I have no quarrel with you.

He had reached the barrera and leapt up,
grabbed the top and pulled himself over.
Franco was too shocked and in too much
pain to react; anyway, he had been surroun-
ded by onlookers trying to help. He would

89/464
never have been able to produce his gun and
take aim. Everybody seemed to be on the
edge of panic. The president signalled furi-
ously and the band struck up again, but the
musicians all began at different times and
none of them played the same tune.

One of the men in jeans and black shirts
sprinted towards Alex, shouting something
in French. Alex ignored him. He hit the
ground and ran.

At the very moment that Alex shot out into
the night, the storm broke. The rain fell like
an ocean thrown from the sky. It crashed in-
to the town, splattered off the pavements
and formed instant rivers that raced along
the gutters and overwhelmed the drains.
There was no thunder. Just this avalanche of
water that threatened to drown the world.

Alex didn’t stop. In seconds his hair was
soaked. Water ran in rivulets down his face
and he could barely see. As he ran he tore off
the outer parts of the matador’s costume,

90/464
first the hat, then the jacket and tie, throwing
each item away,
leaving their memory
behind.

The sea was on his left, the water black
and boiling as it was hit by the rain. Alex
twisted off the road and felt sand beneath his
feet. He was on the beach – the same beach
where he had been lying with Sabina when
all this began. The sea wall and the jetty were
beyond it.

He leapt onto the sea wall and climbed the
heavy boulders. His shirt hung out of his
trousers; it was already sodden, clinging to
his chest.

Yassen’s boat had left.
Alex couldn’t be sure, but he thought he
could see a vague shape disappearing into
the darkness and the rain and he knew that
he must have missed it by seconds. He
stopped, panting. What had he been thinking
of anyway? If the Fer de Lance had still been

91/464
there, would he really have climbed aboard a
second time? Of course not. He had been
lucky to survive the first attempt. He had
come here just in time to see it leave and he
had learnt nothing.

No.
There was something.
Alex stood there for a few more moments
with the rain streaming down his face, then
turned and walked back into the town.

He found the phone box in a street just be-
hind the main church. He had no money so
was forced to make a reverse charge call and
he wondered if it would be accepted. He di-
alled the operator and gave the number that
he had found and memorized in Yassen’s
mobile phone.

“Who is speaking?” the operator asked.

92/464
Alex hesitated. Then… “My name is Yassen

Gregorovich,” he said.

There was a long silence as the connection
was made. Would anyone even answer? Eng-
land was an hour behind France but it was
still late at night.

The rain was falling more lightly now, pat-
tering on the glass roof of the phone box.
Alex waited. Then the operator came back
on.

“Your call has been accepted, monsieur.

Please go ahead…”

More silence. Then a voice. It spoke just

two words.

“Damian Cray.”
Alex said nothing.
The voice spoke again. “Hello? Who is

this?”

Alex was shivering. Maybe it was the rain;
maybe it was a reaction to everything that

93/464
had happened. He couldn’t speak. He heard
the man breathing at the end of the line.

Then there was a click and the phone went

dead.

TRUTH AND CONSEQUENCE

London greeted Alex like an old and reliable
friend. Red buses, black cabs, blue-uni-
formed policemen and grey clouds … could
he be anywhere else? Walking down the
King’s Road, he felt a million miles from the
Camargue – not just home, but back in the
real world. The side of his stomach was still
sore and he could feel the pressure of the
bandage against his skin, but otherwise
Yassen and the bullfight were already slip-
ping into the distant past.

He stopped outside a bookshop which, like
so many of them, advertised itself with the
wafting smell of coffee. He paused for a mo-
ment, then went in.

95/464
He quickly found what he was looking for.
There were three books on Damian Cray in
the biography section. Two of these were
hardly books at all – more glossy brochures
put out by record companies to promote the
man who had made them so many millions.
The first was called Damian Cray – Live! It
was stacked next to a book called Cray-zee!
The Life and Times of Damian Cray. The
same face stared out from the covers. Jet-
black hair cut short like a schoolboy’s. A very
round face with prominent cheeks and bril-
liant green eyes. A small nose, almost too ex-
actly placed right in the middle. Thick lips
and perfect white teeth.

The third book had been written quite a
few years later. The face was a little older,
the eyes hidden behind blue-tinted spec-
tacles, and this Damian Cray was climbing
out of a white Rolls-Royce, wearing a Ver-
sace suit and tie. The title of the book
showed what else had changed: Sir Damian

96/464
Cray: The Man, The Music, The Millions.
Alex glanced at the first page, but the heavy,
complicated prose soon put him off. It
seemed to have been written by someone
who probably read the Financial Times for
laughs.

In the end he didn’t buy any of the books.
He wanted to know more about Cray, but he
didn’t think these books would tell him any-
thing he didn’t know already. And certainly
not why Cray’s private telephone number
had been on the mobile phone of a hired
assassin.

Alex walked back through Chelsea, turning
off down the pretty, white-fronted street
where his uncle, Ian Rider, had lived. He
now shared the house with Jack Starbright,
an American girl who had once been the
housekeeper but had since become his legal
guardian and closest friend. She was the
reason Alex had first agreed to work for MI6.
He had been sent undercover to spy on

97/464
Herod Sayle and his Stormbreaker com-
puters. In return she had been given a visa
which allowed her to stay in London and
look after him.

She was waiting for him in the kitchen
when he got in. He had agreed to be back by
one and she had thrown together a quick
lunch. Jack was a good cook but refused to
make anything that took longer than ten
minutes. She was twenty-eight years old,
slim, with tangled red hair and the sort of
face that couldn’t help being cheerful, even
when she was in a bad mood.

“Had a good morning?” she asked as he

came in.

“Yes.” Alex sat down slowly, holding his

side.

Jack noticed but said nothing. “I hope

you’re hungry,” she went on.

“What’s for lunch?”
“Stir-fry.”

98/464

“It smells good.”
“It’s an old Chinese recipe. At least, that’s
what it said on the packet. Help yourself to
some Coke and I’ll serve up.”

The food was good and Alex tried to eat,
but the truth was that he had no appetite and
he soon gave up. Jack said nothing as he car-
ried his half-finished plate over to the sink,
but then she suddenly turned round.

“Alex, you can’t keep blaming yourself for

what happened in France.”

Alex had been about to leave the kitchen

but now he returned to the table.

“It’s about time you and I talked about
this,” Jack went on. “In fact, it’s time we
talked about everything!” She pushed her
own plate of food away and waited until Alex
had sat down. “All right. So it turns out that
your uncle – Ian – wasn’t a bank manager.
He was a spy. Well, it would have been nice if
he’d mentioned it to me, but it’s too late now

99/464
because he’s gone and got himself killed,
which leaves me stuck here, looking after
you.” She quickly held up a hand. “I didn’t
mean that. I love being here. I love London. I
even love you.

“But you’re not a spy, Alex. You know that.
Even if Ian had some crazy idea about train-
ing you up. Three times now you’ve taken
time off from school and each time you’ve
come back a bit more bashed around. I don’t
even want to know what you’ve been up to,
but personally I’ve been worried sick!”

“It wasn’t my choice…” Alex said.
“That’s my point exactly. Spies and bullets
and madmen who want to take over the
world – it’s got nothing to do with you. So
you were right to walk away in Saint-Pierre.
You did the right thing.”

Alex shook his head. “I should have done
something. Anything. If I had, Sabina’s dad
would never—”

100/464
“You can’t know that. Even if you’d called
the cops, what could they have done? Re-
member – nobody knew there was a bomb.
Nobody knew who the target was. I don’t
think it would have made any difference at
all. And if you don’t mind my saying so, Alex,
going after this guy Yassen on your own was
frankly … well, it was very dangerous. You’re
lucky you weren’t killed.”

She was certainly right about that. Alex re-
membered the arena and saw again the
horns and bloodshot eyes of the bull. He
reached out for his glass and took a sip of
Coke. “I still have to do something,” he said.
“Edward Pleasure was writing an article
about Damian Cray. Something about a
secret meeting in Paris. Maybe he was buy-
ing drugs or something.”

But even as he spoke the words, Alex knew
they couldn’t be true. Cray hated drugs.
There had been advertising campaigns –
posters and TV – using his name and face.

101/464
His last album, White Lines, had contained
four anti-drugs songs. He had made it a per-
sonal issue. “Maybe he’s into porn,” he sug-
gested weakly.

“Whatever it is, it’s going to be hard to
prove, Alex. The whole world loves Damian
Cray.” Jack sighed. “Maybe you should talk
to Mrs Jones.”

Alex felt his heart sink. He dreaded the
thought of going back to MI6 and meeting
the woman who was its deputy head of Spe-
cial Operations. But he knew Jack was right.
At least Mrs Jones would be able to investig-
ate. “I suppose I could go and see her,” he
said.

“Good. But just make sure she doesn’t get
you involved. If Damian Cray is up to
something, it’s her business – not yours.”

The telephone rang.
There was a cordless phone in the kitchen
and Jack took the call. She listened for a

102/464
moment, then handed the receiver to Alex.
“It’s Sabina,” she said. “For you.”

*

*

*

They met outside Tower Records in Picca-
dilly Circus and walked to a nearby Star-
bucks. Sabina was wearing grey trousers and
a loose-fitting jersey. Alex had expected her
to have changed in some way after all that
had happened, and indeed she looked young-
er, less sure of herself. She was obviously
tired. All traces of her South of France sun-
tan had disappeared.

“Dad’s going to live,” she said as they sat
down together with two bottles of juice. “The
doctors are pretty sure about
that. He’s
strong and he kept himself fit. But…” Her
voice trembled. “It’s going to take a long
time, Alex. He’s still unconscious – and he
was badly burnt.” She stopped and drank
some of her juice. “The police said it was a

103/464
gas leak. Can you believe that? Mum says
she’s going to sue.”

“Who’s she going to sue?”
“The people who rented us the house. The
country. She’s

gas board. The whole
furious…”

Alex said nothing. A gas leak. That was

what the police had told him.

Sabina sighed. “Mum said I ought to see
you. She said you’d want to know about
Dad.”

“Your dad had just come down from Paris,
hadn’t he?” Alex wasn’t sure this was the
right time, but he had to know. “Did he say
anything about the article he was writing?”

Sabina looked surprised. “No. He never
talked about his work. Not to Mum. Not to
anyone.”

“Where had he been?”

104/464
“He’d been staying with a friend. A

photographer.”

“Do you know his name?”
“Marc Antonio. Why are you asking all
these questions about my dad? Why do you
want to know?”

Alex avoided the questions. “Where is he

now?” he asked.
“In hospital

in France. He’s not strong
enough to travel. Mum’s still out there with
him. I flew home on my own.”

Alex thought for a moment. This wasn’t a
good idea. But he couldn’t keep silent. Not
knowing what he did. “I think he should have
a police guard,” he said.

“What?” Sabina stared at him. “Why? Are

you saying … it wasn’t a gas leak?”

Alex didn’t answer.
Sabina looked at him carefully, then came
to a decision. “You’ve been asking a lot of

105/464
questions,” she said. “Now it’s my turn. I
don’t know what’s really going on, but Mum
told me that after it happened, you ran away
from the house.”

“How did she know?”
“The police told her. They said you had
this idea that someone had tried to kill Dad
… and that it was someone you knew. And
then you disappeared. They were searching
everywhere for you.”

“I went to the police station at Saint-Pi-

erre,” Alex said.

“But that wasn’t until midnight. You were
completely soaked and you had a cut and you
were dressed in weird clothes…”

Alex had been questioned for an hour
when he had finally shown up at the gen-
darmerie. A doctor had given him three
stitches and bandaged up the wound. Then a
policeman had brought him a change of
clothes. The questions had only stopped with

106/464
the arrival of the man from the British con-
sulate in Lyons. The man, who had been eld-
erly and efficient, seemed to know all about
Alex. He had driven Alex to Montpellier Air-
port to catch the first flight the next day. He
had no interest in what had happened. His
only desire seemed to be to get Alex out of
the country.

“What were you doing?” Sabina asked.
“You say Dad needs protection. Is there
something you know?”

“I can’t really tell you—” Alex began.
“Stuff that!” Sabina said. “Of course you

can tell me!”

“I can’t. You wouldn’t believe me.”
“If you don’t tell me, Alex, I’m going to
walk out of here and you’ll never see me
again. What is it that you know about my
dad?”

In the end he told her. It was very simple.
She hadn’t given him any choice. And in a

107/464
way he was glad. The secret had been with
him too long and carrying it alone, he had
begun to feel it weighing him down.

He began with the death of his uncle, his
introduction to MI6, his training and his first
meeting with Yassen Gregorovich at
the
Stormbreaker computer plant in Cornwall.
He described, as briefly as he could, how he
had been forced, twice more, to work for MI6
– in the French Alps and off the coast of
America. Then he told her what he had felt
the moment he had seen Yassen on the
beach at Saint-Pierre, how he had followed
him to the restaurant, why in the end he had
done nothing.

He thought he had skimmed over it all but
in fact he talked for half an hour before arriv-
ing at his meeting with Yassen on the Fer de
Lance. He had avoided looking directly at
Sabina for much of the time as he talked, but
when he reached the bullfight, describing
how he had dressed up as a matador and

108/464
walked out in front of a crowd of a thousand,
he glanced up and met her eyes. She was
looking at him as if seeing him for the first
time. She almost seemed to hate him.

“I told you it wasn’t easy to believe,” he

concluded lamely.

“Alex…”
“I know the whole thing sounds mad. But
that’s what happened. I am so sorry about
your dad. I’m sorry I couldn’t stop it from
happening. But at least I know who was
responsible.”

“Who?”
“Damian Cray.”
“The pop star?”
“Your dad was writing an article about
him. I found a bit of it at the house. And his
number was on Yassen’s mobile phone.”

“So Damian Cray wanted to kill my dad.”
“Yes.”

109/464
There was a long silence. Too long, Alex

thought.

At last Sabina spoke again. “I’m sorry,
Alex,” she said. “I have never heard so much
crap in all my life.”

“Sab, I told you—”
“I know you said I wouldn’t believe it. But
just because you said that, it doesn’t make it
true!” She shook her head. “How can you ex-
pect anyone to believe a story like that? Why
can’t you tell me the truth?”

“It is the truth, Sab.”
Suddenly he knew what he had to do.
“And I can prove it.”

They took the tube across London to Liver-
pool Street Station and walked up the road to
the building that Alex knew housed the Spe-
cial Operations division of MI6. They found
themselves standing in front of a tall, black-

110/464
painted door, the sort that was designed to
impress people coming in or leaving. Next to
it, screwed into the brickwork, was a brass
plaque with the words:

Sabina had seen it. She looked at Alex
doubtfully.

“Don’t worry,” Alex said. “The Royal &
General Bank doesn’t exist. That’s just the
sign they put on the door.”

They went in. The entrance hall was cold
and businesslike, with high ceilings and a
brown marble floor. To one side there was a
leather sofa and Alex remembered sitting
there the first time he had come, waiting to
go up to his uncle’s office on the fifteenth

111/464
floor. He walked straight across to the glass
reception desk where a young woman was
sitting with a microphone curving across her
mouth, taking calls and greeting visitors at
the same time. There was an older security
officer in uniform and peaked cap next to
her.

“Can I help you?” the woman asked, smil-

ing at Alex and Sabina.

“Yes,” Alex said. “I’d like to see Mrs

Jones.”

“Mrs Jones?” The young woman frowned.
“Do you know what department she works
in?”

“She works with Mr Blunt.”
“I’m sorry…” She turned to the security

guard. “Do you know a Mrs Jones?”

“There’s a Miss Johnson,” the guard sug-

gested. “She’s a cashier.”

112/464
Alex looked from one to the other. “You
know who I mean,” he said. “Just tell her
that Alex Rider is here—”

“There is no Mrs Jones working at this

bank,” the receptionist interrupted.

“Alex…” Sabina began.
But Alex refused to give up. He leant for-
ward so that he could speak confidentially. “I
know this isn’t a bank,” he said. “This is MI6
Special Operations. Please could you—”

“Are you doing this as some sort of
prank?” This time it was the security guard
who was speaking. “What’s all this nonsense
about MI6?”

“Alex, let’s get out of here,” Sabina said.
“No!” Alex couldn’t believe what was hap-
pening. He didn’t even know exactly what it
was that was happening. It had to be a mis-
take. These people were new. Or perhaps
they needed some sort of password to allow
him into the building. Of course. On his

113/464
previous visits here, he had only ever come
when he had been expected. Either that or he
had been brought here against his will. This
time he had come unannounced. That was
why he wasn’t being allowed in.

“Listen,” Alex said. “I understand why you
wouldn’t want to let just anyone in, but I’m
not just anyone. I’m Alex Rider. I work with
Mr Blunt and Mrs Jones. Could you please
let her know I’m here?”

“There is no Mrs Jones,” the receptionist

repeated helplessly.

“And I don’t know any Mr Blunt either,”

the security guard added.

“Alex. Please…” Sabina was sounding more
and more desperate. She really wanted to
leave.

Alex turned to her. “They’re lying, Sabina,”

he said. “I’ll show you.”

114/464
He grabbed her arm and pulled her over to
the lift. He reached out and stabbed the call
button.

“You stop right there!” The security guard

stood up.

The receptionist reached out and pressed a

button, presumably calling for help.

The lift didn’t come.
Alex saw the guard moving towards him.
Still no lift. He looked around and noticed a
corridor leading away, with a set of swing
doors at the end. Perhaps there would be a
staircase or another set of lifts somewhere
else in the building. Pulling Sabina behind
him, Alex set off down the corridor. He heard
the
closer. He
quickened his pace, searching for a way up.

guard getting

security

He slammed through the double doors.
And stopped.

115/464
He was in a banking hall. It was huge, with
a domed ceiling and advertisements on the
walls for mortgages, savings schemes and
personal loans. There were seven or eight
glass windows arranged along one side, with
cashiers stamping documents and cashing
cheques, while about a dozen customers –
ordinary people off the street – waited in
line. Two personal advisers, young men in
smart suits, sat behind desks in the open-
plan area. One of them was discussing pen-
sion schemes with an elderly couple. Alex
heard the other answer his phone.

“Hello. This is the Royal & General Bank,
Liverpool Street. Adam speaking. How may I
help?”

A light flashed on above one of the win-
dows. Number four. A man in a pinstripe suit
went over to it and the queue shuffled
forward.

116/464
Alex took all this in with one glance. He
looked at Sabina. She was staring with a mix-
ture of emotions on her face.

And then the security guard was there.
“You’re not meant to come into the bank this
way,” he said. “This is a staff entrance. Now,
I want you to leave before you get yourself
into real trouble. I mean it! I don’t want to
have to call the police, but that’s my job.”

“We’re going.” Sabina had stepped in and

her voice was cold, definite.

“Sab—”
“We’re going now.”
“You ought to look after your friend,” the
security guard said. “He may think this sort
of thing is funny, but it isn’t.”

Alex left – or rather allowed Sabina to lead
him out. They went through a revolving door
and out onto the street. Alex wondered what
had happened. Why had he never seen the
bank before? Then he realized. The building

117/464
was actually sandwiched between two streets
with a quite separate front and back. He had
always entered from the other side.

“Listen—” he began.
“No. You listen! I don’t know what’s going
on inside your head. Maybe it’s because you
don’t have parents. You have to draw atten-
tion to yourself by creating this … fantasy!
But just listen to yourself, Alex! I mean, it’s
pretty sick. Schoolboy spies and Russian as-
sassins and all the rest of it…”

“It’s got nothing to do with my parents,”

Alex said, feeling anger well up inside him.

“But it’s got everything to do with mine.

My dad gets hurt in an accident—”

“It wasn’t an accident, Sab.” He couldn’t
stop himself. “Are you really so stupid that
you think I’d make all this up?”

“Stupid? Are you calling me stupid?”

118/464
“I’m just saying that I thought we were

friends. I thought you knew me…”

“Yes! I thought I knew you. But now I see I
was wrong. I’ll tell you what’s stupid. Listen-
ing to you in the first place was stupid. Com-
ing to see you was stupid. Ever getting to
know you … that was the most stupid thing
of all.”

She turned and walked away in the direc-
tion of the station. In seconds she had gone,
disappearing into the crowd.

“Alex…” a voice said behind him. It was a

voice that he knew.

Mrs Jones was standing on the pavement.
She had seen and heard everything that had
taken place.

“Let her go,” she said. “I think we need to

talk.”

SAINT OR SINGER?

The office was the same as it had always
been. The same ordinary, modern furniture,
the same view, the same man behind the
same desk. Not for the first time, Alex found
himself wondering about Alan Blunt, head of
MI6 Special Operations. What had his jour-
ney to work been like today? Was there a
suburban house with a nice, smiling wife and
two children waving goodbye as he left to
catch the tube? Did his family know the truth
about him? Had he ever told them that he
wasn’t working for a bank or an insurance
company or anything like that, and that he
carried with him – perhaps in a smart leath-
er case, given to him for his birthday – files
and documents full of death?

120/464
Alex tried to see the teenager in the man in
the grey suit. Blunt must have been his own
age once. He would have gone to school,
sweated over exams, played football, tried
his first cigarette and got bored at weekends
like anybody else. But there was no sign of
any child in the empty grey eyes, the colour-
less hair, the mottled, tightly drawn skin. So
when had it happened? What had turned
him into a civil servant, a spy-master, an
adult with no obvious emotions and no
remorse?

And then Alex wondered if the same thing
would one day happen to him. Was that what
MI6 were preparing him for? First they had
turned him into a spy; next they would turn
him into one of them. Perhaps they already
had an office waiting with his name on the
door. The windows were closed and it was
warm in the room, but he shuddered. He had
been wrong to come here with Sabina. The
office on Liverpool Street was poisonous,

121/464
and one way or another it would destroy him
if he didn’t stay away.

“We couldn’t allow you to bring that girl
here, Alex,” Blunt was saying. “You know
perfectly well that you can’t just show off to
your friends whenever—”

“I wasn’t showing off,” Alex cut in. “Her
dad was almost killed by a bomb in the South
of France.”

“We know all about the business in Saint-

Pierre,” Blunt murmured.
“Do you know that

it was Yassen

Gregorovich who planted it?”

Blunt sighed irritably. “That doesn’t make
any difference. It’s none of your business.
And it’s certainly nothing to do with us!”

Alex stared at him in disbelief. “Sabina’s
father is a journalist,” he exclaimed. “He was
writing about Damian Cray. If Cray wanted
him dead, there must be a reason. Isn’t it
your job to find out?”

122/464
Blunt held up a hand for silence. His eyes,
as always, showed nothing at all. Alex was
struck by the thought that if this man were to
die, sitting here at his desk, nobody would
notice any difference.

“I have received a report from the police in
Montpellier, and also from the British consu-
late,” Blunt said. “This is standard practice
when one of our people is involved.”

“I’m not one of your people,” Alex

muttered.

“I am sorry that the father of your … friend
was hurt. But you might as well know that
the French police have investigated – and
you’re right. It wasn’t a gas leak.”

“That’s what I was trying to tell you.”
“It turns out that a local terrorist organiza-
claimed

have

CST

–

tion
the
responsibility.”

–

“The CST?” Alex’s head spun. “Who are

they?”

123/464
“They’re very new,” Mrs Jones explained.
“CST stands for Camargue Sans Touristes.
Essentially they’re French nationalists who
want to stop local houses in the Camargue
being sold off
tourism and second
homes.”

for

“It’s got nothing to do with the CST,” Alex
insisted. “It was Yassen Gregorovich. I saw
him and he admitted it. And he told me that
the real target was Edward Pleasure. Why
won’t you listen to what I’m saying? It was
this article Edward was writing. Something
about a meeting in Paris. It was Damian Cray
who wanted him dead.”

There was a brief pause. Mrs Jones
glanced at her boss as if needing his permis-
sion
almost
imperceptibly.

speak. He

to

nodded

“Did Yassen mention Damian Cray?” she

asked.

124/464
“No. But I found his private telephone
number in Yassen’s phone. I rang it and I ac-
tually heard him speak.”

“You can’t know it was Damian Cray.”
“Well, that was the name he gave.”
“This is complete nonsense.” It was Blunt
who had spoken and Alex was amazed to see
that he was angry. It was the first time Alex
had ever seen him show any emotion at all
and it occurred to him that not many people
dared to disagree with the chief executive of
Special Operations. Certainly not to his face.

“Why is it nonsense?”
“Because you’re talking about one of the
most admired and respected entertainers in
the country. A man who has raised millions
and millions of pounds for charity. Because
you’re talking about Damian Cray!” Blunt
sank back into his chair. For a moment he
seemed undecided. Then he nodded briefly.
“All right,” he said. “Since you have been of

125/464
some use to us in the past, and since I want
to clear this matter up once and for all, I will
tell you everything we know about Cray.”

“We have extensive files on him,” Mrs

Jones said.
“Why?”
“We keep extensive files on everyone who’s

famous.”

“Go on.”
Blunt nodded again and Mrs Jones took
over. She seemed to know all the facts by
heart. Either she had read the files recently
or, more probably, she had the sort of mind
that never forgot anything.

“Damian Cray was born in north London
on 5 October 1950,” she began. “That’s not
his real name, by the way. He was christened
Harold Eric Lunt. His father was Sir Arthur
Lunt, who made his fortune building multi-
storey car parks. As a child, Harold had a re-
markable singing voice, and aged eleven he

126/464
was sent to the Royal Academy of Music in
London. In fact, he used to sing regularly
there with another boy who also became
famous. That was Elton John.

“But when he was thirteen, there was a ter-
rible disaster. His parents were killed in a
bizarre car accident.”

“What was bizarre about it?”
“The car fell on top of them. It rolled off
the top floor of one of their car parks. As you
can imagine, Harold was distraught. He left
the Royal Academy and travelled the world.
He changed his name and turned to
Buddhism for a while. He also became a ve-
getarian. Even now, he never touches meat.
The tickets for his concerts are made out of
recycled paper. He has very strict values and
he sticks to them.

“Anyway, he came back to England in the
seventies and formed a band – Slam! They
were an instant success. I’m sure the rest of

127/464
this will be very familiar to you, Alex. At the
end of the seventies the band split up, and
Cray began a solo career which took him to
new heights. His first solo album, Firelight,
went platinum. After that he was seldom out
of the UK or US top twenty. He won five
Grammys and an Academy Award for Best
Original Song. In 1986 he visited Africa and
decided to do something to help the people
there. He arranged a concert at Wembley
Stadium, with all proceeds going to charity.
Chart Attack – that was what it was called. It
was a huge success and that Christmas he re-
leased a single: ‘Something for the Children’.
It sold four million copies and he gave every
penny away.

“That was just the beginning. Since the
success of Chart Attack, Cray has cam-
paigned tirelessly on a range of world issues.
Save the rainforests; protect the ozone layer;
end world debt. He’s built his own rehabilita-
tion centres to help young people involved

128/464
with drugs, and he spent two years fighting
to have a laboratory closed down because it
was experimenting on animals.

“In 1989 he performed in Belfast, and
many people believe that this free concert
was a step on the way towards peace in
Northern Ireland. A year later he made two
visits to Buckingham Palace. He was there
on a Thursday to play a solo for Princess Di-
ana’s birthday; and on the Friday he was
back again to receive a knighthood from the
Queen.

“Only last year he was on the cover of Time
magazine. ‘Man of the Year. Saint or Singer?’
That was the headline. And that’s why your
accusations are ridiculous, Alex. The whole
world knows that Damian Cray is just about
the closest thing we have to a living saint.”

“It was still his voice on the telephone,”

Alex said.

129/464
“You heard someone give his name. You

don’t know it was him.”

“I just don’t understand it!” Now Alex was
angry, confused. “All right, we all like Dami-
an Cray. I know he’s famous. But if there’s a
chance that he was involved with the bomb,
why won’t you at least investigate him?”

“Because we can’t.” It was Blunt who had
spoken and the words came out flat and
heavy. He cleared his throat. “Damian Cray
is a multimillionaire. He’s got a huge pent-
house on the Thames and another place
down in Wiltshire, just outside Bath.”

“So what?”
“Rich people have connections and ex-
tremely rich people have very good connec-
tions indeed. Since the nineties, Cray has
been putting his money into a number of
commercial ventures. He bought his own
television station and made a number of pro-
grammes that are now shown all around the

130/464
world. Then he branched out into hotels –
and finally into computer games. He’s about
to launch a new game system. He calls it the
Gameslayer, and apparently it will put all the
other systems – PlayStation 2, GameCube,
whatever – into the shade.”

“I still don’t see—”
“He is a major employer, Alex. He is a man
of enormous influence. And, for what it’s
worth, he donated a million pounds to the
government
just before the last election.
Now do you understand? If it was discovered
that we were investigating him, and merely
on your say-so, there would be a tremendous
scandal. The prime minister doesn’t like us
anyway. He hates anything he can’t control.
He might even use an attack on Damian Cray
as an excuse to close us down.”

“Cray was on television only today,” Mrs
Jones said. She picked up a remote control.
“Have a look at this and then tell me what
you think.”

131/464
A TV monitor in the corner of the room
flickered on, and Alex found himself looking
at a recording of the mid-morning news. He
guessed Mrs Jones probably recorded the
news every day. She fast-forwarded, then ran
the film at the correct speed.

And there was Damian Cray. His hair was
neatly combed and he was wearing a dark,
formal suit, white shirt and mauve silk tie.
He was standing outside the American em-
bassy in London’s Grosvenor Square.

Mrs Jones turned up the sound.
“…the former pop singer, now tireless
campaigner for a number of environmental
and political issues, Damian Cray. He was in
London to meet the president of the United
States, who has just arrived in England as
part of his summer vacation.”

The picture switched to a jumbo jet land-
ing at Heathrow Airport, then cut in closer to

132/464
show the president standing at the open
door, waving and smiling.

“The president arrived at Heathrow Air-
port in Air Force One, the presidential plane.
He is due to have a formal lunch with the
prime minister at number ten Downing
Street today…”

Another cut. Now the president was stand-
ing next to Damian Cray and the two men
were shaking hands, a long handshake for
the benefit of the cameras which flashed all
around them. Cray had sandwiched the pres-
ident’s hand between both his own hands
and seemed unwilling to let him go. He said
something and the president laughed.

“…but first he met Cray for an informal
discussion at the American embassy in Lon-
don. Cray is a spokesman for Greenpeace
and has been leading the movement to pre-
vent oil drilling in the wilds of Alaska, fear-
ing the environmental damage this may
cause. Although he made no promises, the

133/464
president agreed to study the report which
Greenpeace…”

Mrs Jones turned off the television.
“Do you see? The most powerful man in
the world interrupts his holiday to meet
Damian Cray. And he sees Cray before he
even visits the prime minister! That should
give you the measure of the man. So tell me!
What earthly reason could he have to blow
up a house and perhaps kill a whole family?”

“That’s what I want you to find out.”
Blunt sniffed. “I think we should wait for
the French police to get back to us,” he said.
“They’re investigating the CST. Let’s see
what they come up with.”

“So you’re going to do nothing!”
“I think we have explained, Alex.”
“All right.” Alex stood up. He didn’t try to
conceal his anger. “You’ve made me look a
complete fool
in front of Sabina; you’ve

134/464
made me lose one of my best friends. It’s
really amazing. When you need me, you just
pull me out of school and send me to the oth-
er side of the world. But when I need you,
just this once, you pretend you don’t even ex-
ist and you just dump me out on the street…”
“You’re being over-emotional,” Blunt said.
“No, I’m not. But I’ll tell you this. If you
won’t go after Cray, I will. He may be Father
Christmas, Joan of Arc and the Pope all
rolled into one, but it was his voice on the
phone and I know he was somehow involved
in what happened in the South of France. I’m
going to prove it to you.”

Alex stood up and, without waiting to hear

another word, left the room.

There was a long pause.
Blunt took out a pen and made a few notes
on a sheet of paper. Then he looked at Mrs
Jones. “Well?” he demanded.

135/464
“Maybe we should go over the files one
more time,” Mrs Jones suggested. “After all,
Herod Sayle pretended to be a friend of the
British people, and if
it hadn’t been for
Alex…”

“You can do what you like,” Blunt said. He
drew a ring round the last sentence he had
written. Mrs Jones could see the words
Yassen Gregorovich upside down on the
page. “Curious that he should have run into
Yassen a second time,” he muttered.

“And more curious still that Yassen didn’t

kill him when he had the chance.”

“I wouldn’t say that, all things considered.”
Mrs Jones nodded. “Maybe we ought to

tell Alex about Yassen,” she suggested.

“Absolutely not.” Blunt picked up the piece
of paper and crumpled it. “The less Alex
Rider knows about Yassen Gregorovich the
better. I very much hope the two of them
don’t run into each other again.” He dropped

136/464
the paper ball into the bin underneath his
desk. At the end of the day everything in the
bin would be incinerated.

“And that,” he said, “is that.”

Jack was worried.

Alex had come back from Liverpool Street
in a bleak mood and had barely spoken a
word to her since. He had come into the sit-
ting room where she was reading a book and
she had managed to learn that the meeting
with Sabina hadn’t gone well and that Alex
wouldn’t be seeing her again. But during the
afternoon she managed to coax more and
more of the story out of him until finally she
had the whole picture.

“They’re all

idiots!” Alex exclaimed. “I
know they’re wrong but just because I’m
younger than them, they won’t listen to me.”
“I’ve told you before, Alex. You shouldn’t

be mixed up with them.”

137/464
“I won’t be. Never again. They don’t give a

damn about me.”

The doorbell rang.
“I’ll go,” Alex said.
There was a white van parked outside.
Two men were opening the back and, as Alex
watched, they unloaded a brand-new bicycle,
wheeling it down and over to the house. Alex
cast his eye over it. The bike was a Can-
nondale Bad Boy, a mountain bike that had
been adapted for the city with a lightweight
aluminium frame and one-inch wheels. It
was
silver and seemed to have come
equipped with all the accessories he could
have asked for: Digital Evolution lights, a
Blackburn mini-pump … everything top of
the range. Only the silver bell on the handle-
bar seemed old-fashioned and out of place.
Alex ran his hand over the leather saddle
with its twisting Celtic design and then along
the frame, admiring the workmanship. There

138/464
was no sign of any welds. The bike was hand-
made and must have cost hundreds.

One of the men came over to him. “Alex

Rider?” he asked.

“Yes. But I think there’s been a mistake. I

didn’t order a bike.”
“It’s a gift. Here…”
The second man had left the bike propped
up against the railings. Alex found himself
holding a thick envelope. Jack appeared on
the step behind him. “What is it?” she asked.

“Someone has given me a bike.”
Alex opened the envelope. Inside was an
instruction booklet and attached to it a
letter.

Dear Alex,

I’m probably going to get a roasting for this, but I
don’t like the idea of you taking off on your own
without any back-up. This is something I’ve been

139/464
working on for you and you might as well have it
now. I hope it comes in useful.

Look after yourself, dear boy. I’d hate to hear that

anything lethal had happened to you.

All the best,

Smithers

PS This letter will self-destruct ten seconds after it
comes into contact with the air so I hope you read it
quickly!

Alex just had time to read the last sentence
before the letters on the page faded and the
paper itself crumpled and turned into white
ash. He moved his hands apart and what was
left of the letter blew away in the breeze.
Meanwhile the two men had got back into
the van and driven away. Alex was left with
the bike. He flicked through the first pages of
the instruction book.

BIKE PUMP – SMOKESCREEN

MAGNESIUM FLARE HEADLAMP

HANDLEBAR MISSILE EJECTION

TRAILRIDER JERSEY (BULLETPROOF)

MAGNETIC BICYCLE CLIPS

140/464

“Who is Smithers?” Jack asked. Alex had
never told her about him.

“I was wrong,” Alex said. “I thought I had
no friends at MI6. But it looks like I’ve got
one.”

He wheeled the bicycle into the house.

Smiling, Jack closed the door.

THE PLEASURE DOME

It was only in the cold light of morning that
Alex began to see the impossibility of the
task he had set himself. How was he sup-
posed to investigate a man like Cray? Blunt
had mentioned that he had homes in London
and Wiltshire, but hadn’t supplied addresses.
Alex didn’t even know if Cray was still in
England.

But as it turned out, the morning news

told Alex where he might begin.

When he came into the kitchen, Jack was
reading the newspaper over her second cup
of coffee. She took one look at him, then slid
it across the table. “This’ll put you off your
cornflakes.”

142/464
Alex turned the paper round – and there it
was on the second page: Damian Cray look-
ing out at him. A headline ran below the
picture:

CRAY LAUNCHES £100M GAMESLAYER

IT’S DEFINITELY THE HOTTEST TICKET IN LONDON. Today
game players get to see the eagerly
anticipated Game-slayer, developed
by Cray Software Technology, a
company based in Amsterdam, at a
cost rumoured to be in excess of
one hundred million pounds. The
state-of-the-art game system will be
demonstrated by Sir Damian Cray
himself in front of an invited audi-
ence of journalists, friends, celebrit-
ies and industry experts.

No expense has been spared on
the launch, which kicks off at one

143/464
o’clock and includes a lavish cham-
pagne buffet
inside the Pleasure
Dome that Cray has constructed in-
side Hyde Park. This is the first
time that a royal park has been used
for a purely commercial venture
and there were some critics when
permission was given earlier this
year.

But Damian Cray is no ordinary
businessman. He has already an-
nounced that twenty per cent of
profits from the Gameslayer will be
going to charity, this time helping
disabled children throughout
the
UK. Yesterday Cray met with the
United States president to discuss
oil drilling in Alaska. It is said that
the Queen herself approved the
temporary
the
Pleasure Dome, which uses alu-
minium and PTFE fabric (the same

construction of

144/464
material used in the Millennium
Dome). Its futuristic design has cer-
tainly proved an eye-opener for
passing Londoners.

Alex stopped reading. “We have to go,” he
said.

“Do you want your eggs scrambled or

boiled?”

“Jack…”
“Alex. It’s a ticket-only event. What will we

do?”

“I’ll work something out.”
Jack scowled. “Are you really sure about

this?”

“I know, Jack. It’s Damian Cray. Everyone
loves him. But here’s something they may
not have noticed.” He folded the paper and
slid it back to her. “The terrorist group that

145/464
claimed responsibility for
the bomb in
France was called Camargue Sans Touristes.”

“I know.”
“And this new computer game has been

developed by Cray Software Technology.”

“What about it, Alex?”
“Maybe it’s just another coincidence. But

CST… It’s the same letters.”

Jack nodded. “All right,” she said. “So how

do we get in?”

They took a bus up to Knightsbridge and
crossed over into Hyde Park. Before he had
even passed through the gates and into the
park itself, Alex could see just how much had
been invested in the launch. There were hun-
dreds of people streaming along the pave-
ments, getting out of taxies and limousines,
milling around in a crowd that seemed to
cover every centimetre of grass. Policemen

146/464
on foot and on horseback stood at every
corner, giving directions and trying to form
people into orderly lines. Alex was amazed
that the horses could remain so calm sur-
rounded by so much chaos.

And then there was the Pleasure Dome it-
self. It was as if a fantastic spaceship had
landed in the middle of the lake at the centre
of Hyde Park. It seemed to float on the sur-
face of the water, a black pod, surrounded by
a gleaming aluminium frame, silver rods
criss-crossing in a dazzling pattern. Blue and
red spotlights swivelled and rocked,
the
beams flashing even in the daylight. A single
metal bridge stretched across from the bank
to the entrance but there were more than a
dozen security men barring the way. Nobody
was allowed to cross the water without show-
ing their ticket. There was no other way in.

Music blared out of hidden speakers: Cray
singing from his last album, White Lines.
Alex walked down to the edge of the water.

147/464
He could hear shouting and, even in the hazy
afternoon sun, he was almost blinded by a
hundred flashbulbs all exploding at the same
time. The mayor of London had just arrived
and was waving at the press pack, at least a
hundred strong, herded together into a pen
next to the bridge. Alex looked around and
realized that he knew quite a few of the faces
converging on the Pleasure Dome. There
were actors, television presenters, models,
DJs, politicians … all waving their invitations
and queuing up to be let in. This was more
than the first appearance of a new game sys-
tem. It was the most exclusive party London
had ever seen.

And somehow he had to get in.
He ignored a policeman who was trying to
move him out of the way and continued to-
wards the bridge, walking confidently, as if
he had been invited. Jack was a few steps
away from him and he nodded at her.

148/464
It had been Ian Rider, of course, who had
taught him the basics of pickpocketing. At
the time it had just been a game, shortly after
Alex’s tenth birthday, when the two of them
were together in Prague. They were talking
about Oliver Twist and his uncle was ex-
plaining the techniques of the Artful Dodger,
even providing his nephew with a quick
demonstration. It was only much later that
Alex had discovered that all this had been yet
another aspect of his training; that all along
his uncle had secretly been turning him into
something he had never wanted to be.

But it would be useful now.
Alex was close to the bridge. He could see
the invitations being checked by the burly
men in their security uniforms: silver cards
with the Gameslayer logo stamped in black.
There was a natural crush here as the crowd
arrived at the bottleneck and sorted itself in-
to a single line to cross the bridge. He
glanced one last time at Jack. She was ready.

Alex stopped.
“Somebody’s

shouted.

149/464

stolen my

ticket!”

he

Even with the music pounding out, his
voice was loud enough to carry to the crowd
in the immediate area. It was a classic pick-
pocket’s trick. Nobody cared about him, but
suddenly they were worried about their own
tickets. Alex saw one man pull open his jack-
et and glance into his inside pocket. Next to
him a woman briefly opened and closed her
handbag. Several people took their tickets
out and clutched them tightly in their hands.
A plump, bearded man reached round and
tapped his back jeans pocket. Alex smiled.
Now he knew where the tickets were.

He signalled to Jack. The plump man with
the beard was going to be the mark – the one
he had chosen. He was perfectly placed, just
a few steps in front of Alex. And the corner of
his ticket was actually visible, just poking out
of the back pocket. Jack was going to play

150/464
the part of the stall; Alex was in position to
make the dip. Everything was set.

Jack walked ahead and seemed to recog-
nize the man with the beard. “Harry!” she ex-
claimed, and threw her arms around him.

“I’m not…” the man began.
At that exact moment, Alex took two steps
forward, swerved round a woman he vaguely
recognized from a television drama series
and slipped the ticket out of the man’s pock-
et and placed it quickly under his own jacket,
holding it in place with the side of his arm. It
had taken less than three seconds and Alex
hadn’t even been particularly careful. This
was the simple truth about pickpocketing. It
demanded organization as much as skill. The
mark was distracted. All his attention was on
Jack, who was still embracing him. Pinch
someone on the arm and they won’t notice if,
at the same time, you’re touching their leg.
That was what Ian Rider had taught Alex all
those years ago.

151/464
“Don’t you remember me?” Jack was ex-

claiming. “We met at the Savoy!”
“No. I’m sorry. You’ve got

the wrong

person.”

Alex was already brushing past, on his way
to the bridge. In a few moments the mark
would reach for his ticket and find it missing,
but even if he grabbed hold of Jack and ac-
cused her, there would be no evidence. Alex
and the ticket would have disappeared.

He showed the ticket to a security man
and stepped onto the bridge. Part of him felt
bad about what he had done and he hoped
the man with the beard would still be able to
talk his way in. Quietly he cursed Damian
Cray for turning him into a thief. But he
knew that,
from the moment Cray had
answered his call in the South of France,
there could be no going back.

He crossed the bridge and gave the ticket
up on the other side. Ahead of him was a

152/464
triangular entrance. Alex stepped forward
and went into the dome: a huge area fitted
out with high-tech lighting and a raised stage
with a giant plasma screen displaying the let-
ters CST. There were already about five hun-
dred guests spread out in front of it, drinking
champagne and eating canapés. Waiters
were circulating with bottles and trays. A
sense of excitement buzzed all around.

the

stage. A single word

The music stopped. The lighting changed
and the screen went blank. Then there was a
low hum and clouds of dry ice began to pour
onto
–
GAMESLAYER – appeared on the screen;
the hum grew louder. The Game-slayer let-
ters broke up as an animated figure ap-
peared, a ninja warrior, dressed in black
from head to toe, clinging to the screen like a
cut-down version of Spiderman. The hum
was deafening now, a roaring desert wind
with an orchestra somewhere behind. Hid-
den fans must have been turned on because

153/464
real wind suddenly blasted through the
dome, clearing away the smoke and reveal-
ing Damian Cray – in a white suit with a
wide, pink and silver striped tie – standing
alone on the stage, with his image, hugely
magnified, on the screen behind.

The audience surged towards him, ap-

plauding. Cray raised a hand for silence.

“Welcome, welcome!” he said.
Alex found himself drawn towards the
stage like everyone else. He wanted to get as
close to Cray as he could. Already he was
feeling that strange sensation of actually be-
ing in the same room as a man he had known
all his life … but a man he had never met.
Damian Cray was smaller in real life than he
seemed in his photographs. That was Alex’s
first thought. Nevertheless, Cray had been an
A-list celebrity for thirty years. His presence
was huge and he radiated confidence and
control.

154/464
“Today is the day that I launch the Game-
slayer, my new games console,” Cray went
on. He had a faint trace of an American ac-
cent. “I’d like to thank you all for coming.
But if there’s anyone here from Sony or Nin-
tendo, I’m afraid I have bad news for you.”
He paused and smiled. “You’re history.”

There was laughter and applause from the
audience. Even Alex found himself smiling.
Cray had a way of including people, as if he
personally knew everyone in the crowd.

“Gameslayer offers graphic quality and de-
tail like no other system on the planet,” Cray
went on. “It can generate worlds, characters
and totally complex physical simulations in
real time thanks to the floating-point pro-
cessing power of the system, which is, in a
word, massive. Other systems give you
plastic dolls fighting cardboard cut-outs.
With Gameslayer, hair, eyes, skin tones, wa-
ter, wood, metal and smoke all look like the
real thing. We obey the rules of gravity and

155/464
friction. More
than that, we’ve built
something into the system that we call pain
synthesis. What does this mean? In a minute
you’ll find out.”

He paused and the audience clapped

again.

“Before I move on to the demonstration, I
wonder if any of the journalists among you
have any questions?”

A man near the front raised his hand.
“How many games are you releasing this
year?”

“Right now we only have the one game,”
Cray replied. “But there will be twelve more
in the shops by Christmas.”

“What is the first game called?” someone

asked.

“Feathered Serpent.”
“Is it a shoot-’em-up?” a woman asked.

156/464
“Well, yes. It is a stealth game,” Cray

admitted.

“So it involves shooting?”
“Yes.”
The woman smiled, but not humorously.
She was in her forties, with grey hair and a
severe, schoolteacher face. “It’s well known
that you have a dislike of violence,” she said.
“So how can you justify selling children viol-
ent games?”

A ripple of unease ran through the audi-
ence. The woman might be a journalist, but
somehow it seemed wrong to question Cray
in this manner. Not when you were drinking
his champagne and eating his food.

Cray, however, didn’t

seem offended.
“That’s a good question,” he replied in his
soft, lilting voice. “And I’ll tell you, when we
began with the Gameslayer, we did develop a
game where the hero had to collect different-
coloured flowers from a garden and then

157/464
arrange them in vases. It had bunnies and
egg sandwiches too. But do you know what?
Our research team discovered that modern
teenagers didn’t want to play it. Can you
imagine? They told me we wouldn’t sell a
single copy!”

Everyone broke into laughter. Now it was
looking

the female journalist who was
uncomfortable.

Cray held up a hand again. “Actually,
you’ve made a fair point,” he went on. “It’s
true – I hate violence. Real violence … war.
But, you know, modern kids do have a lot of
aggression in them. That’s the truth of it. I
suppose it’s human nature. And I’ve come to
think that it’s better for them to get rid of
that aggression playing harmless computer
games, like mine, than out on the street.”

“Your games still encourage violence!” the

woman insisted.

“I

Damian Cray frowned.

158/464
think I’ve
answered your question. So maybe you
should stop questioning my answer,” he said.
This was greeted by more applause, and
Cray waited until it had died down. “But
now, enough talk,” he said. “I want you to see
Gameslayer for yourself, and the best way to
see it is to play it. I wonder if we have any
teenagers in the audience, although now I
come to think of it, I don’t remember invit-
ing any…”

“There’s one here!” someone shouted, and
Alex felt himself pushed forward. Suddenly
everyone was looking at him and Cray him-
self was peering down from the stage.

“No…” Alex started to protest.
But the audience was already clapping, ur-
ging him on. A corridor opened up in front of
him. Alex stumbled forward and before he
knew it he was climbing up onto the stage.

159/464
The room seemed to tilt. A spotlight spun
round, dazzling him. And there it was.

He was standing on the stage with Damian

Cray.

FEATHERED SERPENT

It was the last
expected.

thing Alex could have

He was face to face with the man who – if
he was right – had ordered the death of Sa-
bina’s father. But was he right? For the first
time, he was able to examine Cray at close
quarters.
It was a strangely unsettling
experience.

Cray had one of the most famous faces in
the world. Alex had seen it on CD covers, on
posters, in newspapers and magazines, on
television … even on the back of cereal pack-
ets. And yet the face in front of him now was
somehow disappointing. It was less real than
all the images he had seen.

161/464
Cray was surprisingly young-looking, con-
sidering he was already in his fifties, but
there was a taut, shiny quality to his skin
that whispered of plastic surgery. And surely
the neat, jet-black hair had to be dyed. Even
the bright green eyes seemed somehow life-
less. Cray was a very small man. Alex found
himself thinking of a doll in a toyshop. That
was what Cray reminded him of. His super-
stardom and his millions of pounds had
turned him into a plastic replica of himself.

And yet…
Cray had welcomed him onto the stage
and was beaming at him as if he were an old
friend. He was a singer. And, as he had made
clear, he opposed violence. He wanted to
save the world, not destroy it. MI6 had
gathered files on him and found nothing.
Alex was here because of a voice, a few words
spoken at the end of a phone. He was begin-
ning to wish he had never come.

162/464
It seemed that the two of them had been
standing there for ages, up on the stage with
hundreds of people waiting to see the
demonstration. In fact, only a few seconds
had passed. Then Cray held out a hand.
“What’s your name?” he asked.

“Alex Rider.”
“Well, it’s great to meet you, Alex Rider.

I’m Damian Cray.”

They shook hands. Alex couldn’t help
thinking that there were millions of people
all around the world who would give any-
thing to be where he was now.

“How old are you, Alex?” Cray asked.
“Fourteen.”
“I’m very grateful

to you for coming.

Thanks for agreeing to help.”

The words were being amplified around
the dome. Out of the corner of his eye, Alex
saw that his own image had joined Cray’s on

163/464
the giant screen. “We’re very lucky that we
do indeed have a teenager,” Cray went on,
addressing the audience. “So let’s see how …
Alex … gets on with the first
level of
Gameslayer One: Feathered Serpent.”

As Cray spoke, three technicians came
onto the stage, bringing with them a televi-
sion monitor, a games console, a table and a
chair. Alex realized that he was going to be
asked to play the game in front of the audi-
ence – with his progress beamed up onto the
plasma screen.

“Feathered Serpent is based on the Aztec
civilization,” Cray explained to the audience.
“The Aztecs arrived in Mexico in 1195, but
some claim that they had in fact come from
another planet. It is on that planet that Alex
is about to find himself. His mission is to
find the four missing suns. But first he must
enter the temple of Tlaloc, fight his way
through five chambers and then throw

164/464
himself into the pool of sacred flame. This
will take him to the next level.”

A fourth technician had come onto the
stage, carrying a webcam. He stopped in
front of Alex and quickly scanned him,
pressed a button on the side of the camera
and left. Cray waited until he had gone.

“You may have been wondering about the
little black-suited figure that you saw on the
screen,” he said, once again taking the audi-
ence into his confidence. “His name is Omni,
and he will be the hero of all the Gameslayer
games. You may think him a little dull and
unimaginative. But Omni is every boy and
every girl in Britain. He is every child in the
world … and now I will show you why!”

The screen went blank, then burst into a
digital whirl of colour. There was a deafening
fanfare – not trumpets but some electronic
equivalent – and the gates of a temple with a
huge Aztec face cut into the wood appeared.
Alex could tell at once that the graphic detail

165/464
of the Gameslayer was better than anything
he had ever seen, but a moment later the
audience gasped with surprise and Alex per-
fectly understood why. A boy had walked
onto the screen and was standing in front of
the gates, awaiting his command. The boy
was Omni. But he had changed. He was now
wearing exactly the same clothes as Alex. He
looked like Alex. More than that, he was Alex
right down to the brown eyes and the
hanging strands of fair hair.

Applause exploded around the room. Alex
could see journalists scribbling in their note-
books or talking quickly into mobile phones,
hoping to be the first with this incredible
scoop. The food and the champagne had
been forgotten. Cray’s technology had cre-
ated an avatar, an electronic double of him,
making it possible for any player not just to
play the game but to become part of it. Alex
knew then that the Gameslayer would sell all
over the world. Cray would make millions.

166/464
And twenty per cent of that would go to

charity, he reminded himself.

Could this man really be his enemy?
Cray waited until everyone was quiet, and
then he turned to Alex. “It’s time to play,” he
said.

Alex sat down in front of the computer
screen that the technicians had set up. He
took hold of the controller and pressed with
his left thumb. In front of him and on the gi-
ant plasma screen, his other self walked to
the right. He stopped and turned himself the
other way. The controller was incredibly
sensitive. Alex almost felt like an Aztec god,
in total control of his mortal self.

“Don’t worry if you get killed on your first
go,” Cray said. “The console is faster than
anything on the market and it may take you a
while to get used to it. But we’re all on your
side, Alex. So – let’s play Feathered Serpent!
Let’s see how far you can go!”

167/464

The temple gates opened.
Alex pressed down and on the screen his
avatar walked forward and into a game en-
vironment that was alien and bizarre and
brilliantly realized. The temple was a fusion
of primitive art and science fiction, with
towering columns, flaming beacons, complex
hieroglyphics and crouching Aztec statues.
But the floor was silver, not stone. Strange
twisted
metal
around the temple area. Electric
light
flickered behind heavily barred windows.
Closed-circuit cameras followed his every
move.

and corridors

stairways

“You have to start by finding two weapons
in the first chamber,” Cray advised, leaning
over Alex’s shoulder. “You may need them
later.”

The first chamber was huge, with organ
music throbbing and stained-glass windows
showing cornfields, crop circles and hovering
spaceships. Alex found the first weapon

168/464
easily enough. There was a sword hanging
high up on a wall. But he soon realized there
were traps everywhere. Part of
the wall
crumbled as he climbed it and reaching out
for the sword activated a missile which shot
out of nowhere, aiming for the avatar. The
missile was a double boomerang with razor-
blade edges, rotating at lightning speed. Alex
knew that if he was hit, he would be cut in
half.

He stabbed down with his thumbs and his
miniature self crouched. The boomerang
spun past. But as it went, one of its blades
caught the avatar on the arm. The audience
gasped. A tiny flow of blood had appeared on
the miniature figure’s sleeve and its face –
Alex’s face – had distorted, showing pain.
The experience was so realistic that Alex al-
most felt a need to check his own, real arm.
He had to remind himself that it was only the
avatar that had been wounded.

169/464
“Pain synthesis!” Cray repeated the words,
his voice echoing across the Pleasure Dome.
“In the Gameslayer world, we share all the
hero’s emotions. And should Alex die, the
central processing unit will ensure that we
feel his death.”

Alex had climbed back down and was
searching for the second weapon. The little
wound was already healing, the blood flow
slowing down. He dodged as another boom-
erang shot past his shoulder. But he still
couldn’t find the second weapon.

“Try looking behind the ivy,” Cray sugges-
ted in a stage whisper, and the audience
smiled, amused that Alex needed help so
soon.

There was a crossbow concealed in an al-
cove. But what Cray hadn’t told Alex was that
the ivy covering the alcove contained a ten
thousand volt charge. He found out soon
enough. The moment his avatar touched the
ivy, there was a blue flash and it was thrown

170/464
backwards, screaming out loud, its eyes wide
and staring. The avatar hadn’t quite been
killed, but it had been badly hurt.

Cray tapped Alex on the shoulder. “You’ll

have to be more careful than that,” he said.

A buzz of excitement travelled through the
audience. They had never seen anything like
this before.

And that was when Alex decided. Suddenly
MI6, Yassen, Saint-Pierre … all of it was for-
gotten. Cray had tricked him into touching
the ivy. He had deliberately injured him. Of
course, it was just a game. It was only the
avatar that had been hurt. But the humili-
ation had been his – and suddenly he was
determined to get the better of Feathered
Serpent. He wasn’t going to be beaten. He
wasn’t going to share his death with anyone.
Grimly, he picked up the crossbow and
sent the avatar forward, further into the
Aztec world.

171/464
The second chamber consisted of a huge
hole in the ground. It was actually a pit, fifty
metres deep, with narrow pillars stretching
all the way to the top. The only way to get
from one side to the other was to jump from
one pillar to the next. If he missed his step or
overbalanced, he would fall to his death –
and to make it more difficult it was pouring
with rain inside the chamber, making the
surfaces slippery. The rain itself was ex-
traordinary. As Cray told the audience, the
Gameslayer’s
allowed
every raindrop to be realized individually.
The avatar was soaking wet, its clothes sod-
den and its hair plastered to its head.

technology

image

There was a sudden electronic squawk. A
creature with butterfly wings and the face
and claws of a dragon swooped down, trying
to knock the avatar off
its perch. Alex
brought the crossbow up and shot it, then
took the last three leaps to the other side of
the pit.

172/464
“You’re doing very well,” Damian Cray
said. “But I wonder if you’ll make it through
the third chamber.”

Alex was confident. Feathered Serpent was
beautifully designed. Its texture maps and
backgrounds were perfect. The Omni charac-
ter was way ahead of the competition. But for
all this, it was just another computer game,
similar to ones that Alex had played on Xbox
and PlayStation 2. He knew what he was do-
ing. He could win.

He made easy work of the third section: a
tall, narrow corridor with carved faces on
either side. A hail of wooden spears and ar-
rows fired out of the wooden mouths but not
one of them came close as the avatar ducked
and weaved, all the time running forward. A
bubbling river of acid twisted along the cor-
ridor. The avatar jumped over it as if it were
a harmless stream.

Now he came to an incredible indoor
jungle where the greatest threat, among the

173/464
trees and the creepers, was a huge robotic
snake, covered in spikes. The creature looked
horrific. Alex had never seen better graphics.
But his avatar ran circles round it, leaving it
behind so quickly that the audience barely
had a chance to see it.

Cray’s face hadn’t changed, but now he
was leaning over Alex, his eyes fixed on the
screen, one hand resting on Alex’s shoulder.
His knuckles were almost white.

“You’re making it look too easy,” he mur-
mured. Although the words were spoken
light-heartedly, there was a rising tension in
his voice.

Because the audience was now on Alex’s
side. Millions of pounds had been spent on
the development of the Feathered Serpent
software. But it was being beaten by the first
teenager to play it. As Alex dodged a second
robotic snake, someone laughed. The hand
on his shoulder tightened.

174/464
He came to the fifth chamber. This was a
mirror maze, filled with smoke and guarded
by a dozen Aztec gods wrapped in feathers,
jewellery and golden masks. Again, each and
every one of the gods was a small master-
piece of graphic art. But although they
lunged at the avatar, they kept on missing,
and suddenly more of the people in the audi-
ence were laughing and applauding, urging
Alex on.

One more god, this one with claws and an
alligator tail, stood between Alex and the
pool of fire that would lead him to the next
level. All he had to do was get past it. That
was when Cray made his move. He was care-
ful. Nobody would see what happened and if
they did it would simply look as if he was
carried away by the excitement of the game.
But he was quite deliberate. His hand sud-
denly moved to Alex’s arm and closed tight,
pulling it away from the controller. For a few
brief seconds, Alex lost control.
It was

175/464
enough. The Aztec god reached out and its
claws raked across the avatar’s stomach. Alex
actually heard his shirt being torn; he almost
felt the pain as the blood poured out. His
avatar fell to its knees, then pitched forward
and lay still. The screen froze and the words
GAME OVER appeared in red letters.

Silence fell inside the dome.
“Too bad, Alex,” Cray said. “I’m afraid it

wasn’t quite as easy as you thought.”

There was a scattering of applause from
the audience. It was hard to tell if they were
applauding the technology of the game or the
way Alex had taken it on and almost beaten
it. But there was also a sense of unease. Per-
haps Feathered Serpent was too realistic. It
really was as if a part of Alex had died there,
on the screen.

Alex turned to Cray. He was angry. He
alone knew that the man had cheated. But
Cray was smiling again.

176/464
“You did great,” he said. “I asked for a
demonstration and you certainly gave us
one. You make sure you leave your address
with one of my assistants. I’ll be sending you
a free Gameslayer system and all the intro-
ductory games.”

The audience heard this and applauded
with more enthusiasm. For a second time,
Cray held out a hand. Alex hesitated for a
moment, then took it. In a way, he couldn’t
blame Cray. The man couldn’t allow the
Gameslayer to be turned into a laughing
stock on its first outing. He had an invest-
ment to protect. But Alex still didn’t like
what had happened.

“Good to meet you, Alex. Well done…”
He climbed down from the stage. There
were more demonstrations and more talks
by members of Cray’s staff. Then lunch was
served. But Alex didn’t eat. He had seen
enough. He left
the Pleasure Dome and
crossed over the water, walking back through

177/464
the park and all the way down to the King’s
Road.

Jack was waiting for him when he got

home.

“So how did it go?” she asked.
Alex told her.
“What a cheater!” Jack scowled. “Mind
you, Alex. A lot of rich men are bad losers
and Cray is very rich indeed. Do you really
think this proves anything?”

“I don’t know, Jack.” Alex was confused.
He had to remind himself: a great chunk of
the Gameslayer profits was going to charity.
A huge amount. And he still had no proof. A
few words on a phone. Was it enough to tie
Cray in with what had happened in Saint-Pi-
erre? “Maybe we should go to Paris,” he said.
“That was where this all began. There was a
meeting. Edward Pleasure was there. He was
working with a photographer. Sabina told
me his name. Marc Antonio.”

178/464
“With a name like that, he should be easy
enough to track down,” Jack said. “And I
love Paris.”

“It still might be a waste of time.” Alex
sighed. “I didn’t like Damian Cray. But now
that I’ve met him…” His voice trailed off.
“He’s an entertainer. He makes computer
games. He didn’t look like the sort of man
who’d want to hurt anyone.”

“It’s your call, Alex.”
Alex shook his head. “I don’t know, Jack. I

just don’t know…”

The launch of the Gameslayer was on the
news that night. According to the reports,
the entire industry had been knocked out by
the graphic quality and the processing power
of the new system. The part that Alex had
played in the demonstration wasn’t men-
tioned. However, something else was.

179/464
An event had taken place that had cast a
cloud over what would otherwise have been a
perfect day. It seemed that someone had
died. A picture flashed up onto the screen, a
woman’s face, and Alex recognized her at
once. It was the school-teacherly woman
who had put Cray on the spot, asking him
awkward questions about violence. A police-
man explained that she had been run over by
a car as she left Hyde Park. The driver hadn’t
stopped.

The following morning Alex and Jack went
two tickets for

to Waterloo and bought
Eurostar.

By lunchtime they were in Paris.

RUE BRITANNIA

“Do you realize, Alex,” Jack said, “Picasso
sat exactly where we’re sitting now. And
Chagall. And Salvador Dalí…”

“At this very table?”
“At this very café. All the big artists came

here.”

“What are you trying to say, Jack?”
“Well, I was just wondering if you’d like to
forget this whole adventure thing and come
with me to the Picasso Museum. Paris is
such a fun place. And I’ve always found look-
ing at pictures a lot more enjoyable than get-
ting shot.”

“Nobody’s shooting at us.”
“Yet.”

181/464
A day had passed since they had arrived in
Paris and booked into a little hotel that Jack
knew, opposite Notre-Dame. Jack knew the
city well. She had once spent a year at the
Sorbonne, studying art. But for the death of
Ian Rider and her involvement with Alex, she
might well have gone to live there.

She had been right about one thing. Find-
ing out where Marc Antonio lived had been
easy enough. She had only telephoned three
agencies before she found the one that rep-
resented the photographer, although it had
taken all her charm – and rusty French – to
cajole his telephone number out of the girl
on the switchboard. Getting to meet him,
however, was proving more difficult.

She had rung the number a dozen times
during the course of the morning before it
was answered. It was a man’s voice. No, he
wasn’t Marc Antonio. Yes, this was Marc An-
tonio’s house but he had no idea where he
was. The voice was full of suspicion. Alex had

182/464
been listening, sharing the receiver with
Jack. In the end he took over.

“Listen,” he said. His French was almost as
good as Jack’s, but then he had started learn-
ing when he was three years old. “My name
is Alex Rider. I’m a friend of Edward Pleas-
ure. He’s an English journalist—”

“I know who he is.”
“Do you know what happened to him?”
A pause. “Go on…”
“I have to speak to Marc Antonio. I have
some important
information.” Alex con-
sidered for a moment. Should he tell this
man what he knew? “It’s about Damian
Cray,” he said.

The name seemed to have an effect. There

was another pause, longer this time. Then…

“Come to la Palette. It’s a café on the rue
de Seine. I will meet you there at one
o’clock.”

183/464

There was a click as the man hung up.
It was now ten past one. La Palette was a
small, bustling café on the corner of a
square, surrounded by art galleries. Waiters
with long white aprons were sweeping in and
out, carrying trays laden with drinks high
above their heads. The place was packed but
Alex and Jack had managed to get a table
right on the edge, where they would be most
conspicuous. Jack was drinking a glass of
beer; Alex had a bright red fruit juice – a
sirop de grenadine – with ice. It was his fa-
vourite drink when he was in France.

He was beginning to wonder if the man he
had spoken to on the telephone was going to
show up. Or could he be here already? How
were they going to find each other in this
crowd? Then he noticed a motorcyclist sit-
ting on a beaten-up Piaggio 125cc motorbike
on the other side of the street; he was a
young man in a leather jacket with black
curly hair and stubble on his cheeks. He had

184/464
pulled in a few minutes before but hadn’t
dismounted, as
if he was waiting for
someone. Alex met his eye; there was a flash
of contact. The young man looked puzzled
but then he got off his bike and came over,
moving warily as if afraid of a trap.

“You are Alex Rider?” he asked. He spoke
English with an attractive accent, like an act-
or in a film.

“Yes.”
“I wasn’t expecting a child.”
“What difference does it make?” Jack de-
manded, coming to Alex’s defence. “Are you
Marc Antonio?” she asked.

“No. My name is Robert Guppy.”
“Do you know where he is?”
“He asked me to take you to him.” Guppy
glanced back at the Piaggio. “But I have only
room for one.”

185/464
“Well, you can forget it. I’m not letting

Alex go on his own.”

“It’s all right, Jack,” Alex cut in. He smiled
at her. “It looks like you get to visit the Picas-
so Museum after all.”

Jack sighed. Then she nodded. “All right,”

she said. “But take care.”

Robert Guppy drove through Paris like
someone who knew the city well – or who
wanted to die in it. He swerved in and out of
the traffic, ignored red lights and spun across
intersections with the blare of car horns
echoing all around. Alex found himself cling-
ing on for dear life. He had no idea where
they were going but realized there was a
reason for Guppy’s dangerous driving. He
was making
they weren’t being
followed.

sure

They slowed down on the other side of the
Seine, on the edge of the Marais, close to the

186/464
Forum des Halles. Alex recognized the area.
The last time he had been here, he had called
himself Alex Friend and had been accompa-
nying the hideous Mrs Stellenbosch on the
way to the Point Blanc Academy. Now they
slowed down and stopped in a street of typic-
ally Parisian houses – six storeys high with
solid-looking doorways and tall frosted win-
dows. Alex noticed a street sign: rue Britan-
nia. The street went nowhere and half the
buildings looked empty and dilapidated.
Indeed, the ones at the far end were shored
up by scaffolding and surrounded by wheel-
barrows and cement mixers, with a plastic
chute for debris. But there were no workmen
in sight.

Guppy got off the bike. He gestured at one
of the doors. “This way,” he said. He glanced
up and down the street one last time, then
led Alex in.

The door led to an inner courtyard with
old furniture and a tangle of rusting bicycles

187/464
in one corner. Alex followed Guppy up a
short flight of steps and through another
doorway. He found himself in a large, high-
ceilinged room with whitewashed walls, win-
dows on both sides and a dark wood floor. It
was a photographer’s studio. There were
screens, complicated lamps on metal
legs
and silver umbrellas. But someone was also
living here. To one side was a kitchen area
with a pile of tins and dirty plates.

Robert Guppy closed the door and a man
appeared from behind one of the screens. He
was barefoot, wearing a string vest and
shapeless jeans. Alex guessed he must be
about fifty. He was thin, unshaven, with a
tangle of hair that was black mixed with sil-
ver. Strangely, he only had one eye; the other
was behind a patch. A one-eyed photograph-
er? Alex couldn’t see why not.

The man glanced at him curiously, then

spoke to his friend.

“C’est lui qui a téléphoné?”

188/464

“Oui…”
“Are you Marc Antonio?” Alex asked.
“Yes. You say you are a friend of Edward
Pleasure. I didn’t know Edward hung out
with kids.”

“I know his daughter. I was staying with
him in France when…” Alex hesitated. “You
know what happened to him?”

“Of course I know what happened to him.
Why do you think I am hiding here?” He
gazed at Alex quizzically, his one good eye
slowly evaluating him. “You said on the tele-
phone that you could tell me something
about Damian Cray. Do you know him?”
“I met him two days ago. In London…”
“Cray is no longer in London.” It was
Robert Guppy who spoke,
leaning against
the door. “He has a software plant just out-
side Amsterdam. In Sloterdijk. He arrived
there this morning.”

189/464

“How do you know?”
“We’re keeping a close eye on Mr Cray.”
Alex turned to Marc Antonio. “You have to
tell me what you and Edward Pleasure found
out about him,” he said. “What story were
you working on? What was the secret meet-
ing he had here?”

The photographer thought for a moment,
then smiled crookedly, showing nicotine-
stained teeth. “Alex Rider,” he muttered,
“you’re a strange kid. You say you have in-
formation to give me, but you come here and
you ask only questions. You have a nerve.
But I like that.” He took out a cigarette – a
Gauloise – and screwed it into his mouth. He
lit it and blew blue smoke into the air. “All
right. It is against my better judgement. But I
will tell you what I know.”

There were two bar stools next to the kit-
chen. He perched on one and invited Alex to

190/464
do the same. Robert Guppy stayed by the
door.

“The story that Ed was working on had
nothing to do with Damian Cray,” he began.
“At least, not to start with. Ed was never in-
terested in the entertainment business. No.
He was working on something much more
important … a story about the NSA. You
know what that is? It’s the National Security
Agency of America. It’s an organization in-
volved in counter-terrorism, espionage and
the protection of information. Most of its
work is top secret. Code makers. Code break-
ers. Spies…

“Ed became interested in a man called
Charlie Roper, an extremely high-ranking of-
ficer in the NSA. He had information – I
don’t know how he got it – that this man,
Roper, might have turned traitor. He was
heavily in debt. An addict…”

“Drugs?” Alex asked.

191/464
Marc Antonio shook his head. “Gambling.
It can be just as destructive. Ed heard that
Roper was here in Paris and believed he had
come to sell secrets – either to the Chinese
or, more likely, the North Koreans. He met
me just over a week ago. We’d worked to-
gether often, he and I. He got the stories; I
got the pictures. We were a team. More than
that – we were friends.” Marc Antonio
shrugged. “Anyway, we found out where
Roper was staying and we followed him from
his hotel. We had no idea who he was meet-
ing, and if you had told me, I would never
have believed it.”

He paused and drew on his Gauloise. The
tip glowed red. Smoke trickled up in front of
his good eye.

“Roper went for lunch at a restaurant
called la Tour d’Argent. It is one of the most
expensive restaurants in Paris. And it was
Damian Cray who was paying the bill. We
saw the two of them together. The restaurant

192/464
is high up but it has wide glass windows with
views of Paris. I took photographs of them
with a telescopic lens. Cray gave Roper an
envelope. I think it contained money, and, if
so, it was a lot of money because the envel-
ope was very thick.”

“Wait a minute,” Alex interrupted. “What
would a pop singer want with someone from
the NSA?”

“That is exactly what Ed wanted to know,”
the photographer replied. “He began to ask
questions. He must have asked too many.
Because the next thing I heard, someone had
tried to kill him in Saint-Pierre and that
same day they came for me. In my case the
bomb was in my car. If I had turned the igni-
tion, I wouldn’t be speaking to you now.”

“Why didn’t you?”
“I am a careful man. I noticed a wire.” He
stubbed out the cigarette. “Someone also
broke into my apartment. Much of my

193/464
equipment was stolen, including my camera
and all the photographs I had taken at la
Tour d’Argent. It was no coincidence.”

He paused.
“But why am I telling you all this, Alex
Rider? Now it is your turn to tell me what
you know.”

“I was on holiday in Saint-Pierre—” Alex

began.

That was as far as he got.
A car had stopped somewhere outside the
building. Alex hadn’t heard it approach. He
only became aware of it when its engine
stopped. Robert Guppy took a step forward,
raising a hand. Marc Antonio’s head snapped
round. There was a moment’s silence – and
Alex knew that it was the wrong sort of si-
lence. It was empty. Final.

And then there was an explosion of bullets
and the windows shattered, one after anoth-
er, the glass falling in great slabs to the floor.

194/464
Robert Guppy was killed instantly, thrown
off his feet with a series of red holes stitched
across his chest. A light bulb was hit and ex-
ploded; chunks of plaster crumbled off the
wall. The air rushed in, and with it came the
sound of men shouting and footsteps stamp-
ing across the courtyard.

Marc Antonio was the first to recover. Sit-
ting by the kitchen, he had been out of the
line of fire and hadn’t been hit. Alex too was
shocked but uninjured.

“This way!” the photographer shouted and
propelled Alex across the room even as the
door burst open with a crash of splintering
wood. Alex just had time to glimpse a man
dressed in black with a machine gun cradled
in his arms. Then he was pulled behind one
of the screens he had noticed earlier. There
was another exit here – not a door but a
jagged hole in the wall. Marc Antonio had
already climbed through. Alex followed.

195/464
“Up!” Marc Antonio pushed Alex ahead of

him. “It’s the only way!”

There was a wooden staircase, seemingly
unused, old and covered in plaster dust. Alex
started to climb … three floors, four, with
Marc Antonio just behind him. There was a
single door on each floor but Marc Antonio
urged him on. He could hear the man with
the machine gun. He had been joined by
someone else. The two killers were following
them up.

He arrived at the top. Another door barred
his way. He reached out and turned the
handle and at that moment there was anoth-
er burst of gunfire and Marc Antonio
grunted and curved away, falling backwards.
Alex knew he was dead. Mercifully, the door
had opened in front of him. He tumbled
through, expecting at any moment to feel the
rake of bullets across his shoulders. But the
photographer had saved him, falling between
Alex and his pursuers. Alex had made it onto

196/464
the roof of the building. He lashed out with
his heel, slamming the door shut behind
him.

He found himself in a landscape of sky-
lights and chimney stacks, water tanks and
TV aerials. The roofs ran the full length of
the rue Britannia, with low walls and thick
pipes dividing the different houses. What
had Marc Antonio intended, coming up
here? He was six floors above street level.
Was there a fire escape? A staircase leading
down?

Alex had no time to find out. The door flew
open and the two men came through it, mov-
ing more slowly now, knowing he was
trapped. Somewhere deep inside Alex a voice
whispered – why couldn’t they leave him
alone? They had come for Marc Antonio, not
for him. He was nothing to do with this. But
he knew they would have their orders. Kill
the photographer and anyone associated

197/464
with him. It didn’t matter who Alex was. He
was just part of the package.

And then he remembered something he
had seen when he entered the rue Britannia,
and suddenly he was running, without even
being sure that he was going in the right dir-
ection. He heard the clatter of machine-gun
fire and black tiles disintegrated centimetres
behind his feet. Another burst. He felt a
spray of bullets passing close to him and part
of a chimney stack shattered, showering him
with dust. He jumped over a low partition.
The edge of the roof was getting closer. The
men behind him paused, thinking he had
nowhere to go. Alex kept
running. He
reached the edge and launched himself into
the air.

To the men with the guns it must have
seemed that he had jumped to a certain
death on the pavement six floors below. But
Alex had seen building works: scaffolding,
cement mixers – and an orange pipe

198/464
designed to carry builders’ debris from the
different floors down to the street.

The pipe actually consisted of a series of
buckets, each one bottomless, interlocking
like a flume at a swimming pool. Alex
couldn’t judge his leap – but he was lucky.
For a second or two he fell, arms and legs
sprawling. Then he saw the entrance to the
pipe and managed to steer himself towards
it. First his outstretched legs, then his hips
and shoulders, entered the tube perfectly.
The tunnel was filled with cement dust and
he was blinded. He could just make out the
orange walls flashing past. The back of his
head, his thighs and shoulders were battered
mercilessly. He couldn’t breathe and realized
with a sick dread that if the exit was blocked
he would break every bone in his body.

The tube was shaped like a stretched-out
J. As Alex reached the bottom, he felt himself
slowing down. Suddenly he was spat back
out into daylight. There was a mound of sand

199/464
next to one of the cement mixers and he
thudded into it. All the breath was knocked
out of him. Sand and cement
filled his
mouth. But he was alive.

Painfully he got to his feet and looked up.
The two men were still on the roof, far above
him. They had decided not to attempt his
stunt. The orange tube had been just wide
enough to take him; they would have got
jammed before they were halfway. Alex
looked up the street. There was a car parked
outside the entrance to Marc Antonio’s stu-
dio. But there was nobody in sight.

He spat and dragged the back of his hand
across his lips; then he limped quickly away.
Marc Antonio was dead, but he had given
Alex another piece of the puzzle. And Alex
knew where he had to go next. Sloterdijk. A
software plant outside Amsterdam. Just a
few hours on a train from Paris.

He reached the end of the rue Britannia
and turned the corner, moving faster all the

200/464
time. He was bruised, filthy and lucky to be
alive. He just wondered how he was going to
explain all this to Jack.

BLOOD MONEY

Alex lay on his stomach, watching the
guards as they examined the waiting car. He
was holding a pair of Bausch & Lomb prism
system binoculars with 30x magnification,
and although he was more than a hundred
metres away from the main gate, he could
see everything clearly … right down to the
car’s number
driver’s
moustache.

plate

and

the

He had been here for more than an hour,
lying motionless in front of a bank of pine
trees, hidden from sight by a row of shrubs.
He was wearing grey jeans, a dark T-shirt
and a khaki jacket, which he had picked up
in the same army supplies shop that had
provided the binoculars. The weather had

202/464
turned yet again, bringing with it an after-
noon of constant drizzle, and Alex was
soaked through. He wished now that he had
brought the thermos of hot chocolate Jack
had offered him. At the time, he’d thought
she was treating him like a child – but even
the SAS know the importance of keeping
warm. They had taught him as much when
he was training with them.

Jack had come with him to Amsterdam
and once again it had been she who had
checked them into a hotel, this time on the
Herengracht, one of the three main canals.
She was there now, waiting in their room. Of
course, she had wanted to come with him.
After what had happened in Paris, she was
more worried about him than ever. But Alex
had persuaded her that two people would
have twice as much chance of being spotted
as one, and her bright red hair would hardly
help. Reluctantly she had agreed.

203/464
“Just make sure you get back to the hotel
before dark,” she said. “And if you pass a
tulip shop, maybe you could bring me a
bunch.”

He smiled, remembering her words. He
shifted his weight, feeling the damp grass be-
neath his elbows. He wondered what exactly
he had learnt in the past hour.

He was in the middle of a strange industri-
al area on the outskirts of Amsterdam. Slo-
terdijk contained a sprawl of factories, ware-
houses and processing plants. Most of the
compounds were low-rise, separated from
each other by wide stretches of tarmac, but
there were also clumps of trees and grass-
land as if someone had tried – and failed – to
cheer the place up. Three windmills rose up
behind the headquarters of Cray’s technolo-
gical empire. But they weren’t the traditional
Dutch models, the sort that would appear on
picture postcards. These were modern,
towering pillars of grey concrete with triple

204/464
blades endlessly slicing the air. They were
huge and menacing, like invaders from an-
other planet.

The compound itself reminded Alex of an
army barracks … or maybe a prison. It was
surrounded by a double fence, the outer one
topped with razor wire. There were guard
towers at fifty-metre intervals and guards on
patrol all around the perimeter. In Holland,
a country where the police carry guns, Alex
wasn’t surprised that the guards were armed.
Inside, he could make out eight or nine
buildings,
low and rectangular, white-
bricked with high-tech plastic roofs. Various
people were moving around, some of them
transported in electric cars. Alex could hear
the whine of the engines, like milk floats. The
compound had its own communications
centre, with five huge satellite dishes moun-
ted outside. Otherwise, it seemed to consist
of laboratories, offices and living quarters.
One building stood out in the middle of it all:

205/464
a glass and steel cube, aggressively modern
in design. This might be the main headquar-
ters, Alex thought. Perhaps he would find
Damian Cray inside.

But how was he to get in? He had been

studying the entrance for the last hour.

the bottom of

A single road led up to the gate, with a
traffic light at each end. It was a complicated
process. When a car or a truck arrived, it
the road and
stopped at
waited. Only when the first
traffic light
changed was it allowed to continue forward
to the glass and brick guardhouse next to the
gate. At this point, a uniformed man ap-
peared and took the driver’s ID, presumably
to check it on a computer. Two more men ex-
amined the vehicle, checking that there were
no passengers. And that wasn’t all. There
was a security camera mounted high up on
the fence and Alex had noticed a length of
what looked like toughened glass built into
the road. When the vehicles stopped they

206/464
were right on top of it, and Alex guessed that
there must be a second camera underneath.
There was no way he could sneak into the
compound. Cray Software Technology had
left nothing to chance.

Several trucks had entered the compound
while he had been watching. Alex had recog-
nized the black-clothed figure of Omni
painted – life-sized – on the sides as part of
the Gameslayer logo. He wondered if
it
might be possible to sneak inside one of the
trucks, perhaps as it was waiting at the first
set of lights. But the road was too open. At
night it would be floodlit. Anyway, the doors
would almost certainly be locked.

He couldn’t climb the fences. The razor
wire would see to that. He doubted he could
tunnel his way in. Could he somehow dis-
guise himself and mingle with the evening
shift? No. For once his size and age were
against him. Maybe Jack would have been
able to attempt
it, pretending to be a

207/464
replacement cleaner or a technician. But
there was no way he would be able to talk his
way past the guards, particularly without
speaking a word of Dutch. Security was too
tight.

And then Alex saw it. Right in front of his

eyes.

Another truck had stopped and the driver
was being questioned while the cabin was
searched. Could he do it? He remembered
the bicycle that was chained to a lamppost
just a couple of hundred metres down the
road. Before he had left England he had gone
through the manual that had come with it
and had been amazed how many gadgets
Smithers had been able to conceal in and
around such an ordinary object. Even the bi-
cycle clips were magnetic! Alex watched the
gate slide open and the truck pass through.

Yes. It would work. He would have to wait
until it was dark – but it was the last thing

208/464
anyone would expect. Despite everything,
Alex suddenly found himself smiling.

He just hoped he could find a fancy-dress

shop in Amsterdam.

By nine o’clock it was dark but the search-
lights around the compound had been activ-
ated long before, turning the area into a
dazzling collision of black and white. The
gates, the razor wire, the guards with their
guns … all could be seen a mile away. But
now they were throwing vivid shadows, pools
of darkness that might offer a hiding place to
anyone brave enough to get close.

A single truck was approaching the main
gate. The driver was Dutch and had driven
up from the port of Rotterdam. He had no
idea what he was carrying and he didn’t care.
From the first day he had started working for
Cray Software Technology, he had known
that it was better not to ask questions. The

209/464
first of the two traffic lights was red and he
slowed down, then came to a halt. There
were no other vehicles in sight and he was
annoyed to be kept waiting, but it was better
not to complain. There was a sudden knock-
ing sound and he glanced out of the window,
looking in the side mirror. Was someone try-
ing to get his attention? But there was no one
there and a moment later the light changed,
so he threw the gearstick into first and
moved on again.

As usual he drove onto the glass panel and
wound down his window. There was a guard
standing outside and he passed across his
ID, a plastic card with his photograph, name
and employee number. The driver knew that
other guards would inspect his truck. He
sometimes wondered why they were so sens-
itive about security. After all, they were only
making computer games. But he had heard
about
sabotage … companies

industrial

210/464
stealing secrets from each other. He sup-
posed it made sense.

Two guards were walking round the truck
even as the driver sat there, thinking his
private thoughts. A third was examining the
pictures being transmitted by the camera un-
derneath it. The truck had recently been
cleaned. The word GAMESLAYER stood
out on the side, with the Omni figure crouch-
ing next to it. One of the guards reached out
and tried to open the door at the back. It
was, as it should have been, locked. Mean-
while the other guard peered in through the
front cabin window. But it was obvious that
the driver was alone.

The security operation was smooth and
well practised. The cameras had shown
nobody hiding underneath the truck or on
the roof. The rear door was locked. The
driver had been cleared. One of the guards
gave a signal and the gate opened electronic-
ally, sliding sideways to let the truck in. The

211/464
driver knew where to go without being told.
After about fifty metres he branched off the
entrance road and followed a narrower track
that brought him to the unloading bay. There
were about a dozen other vehicles parked
here, with warehouses on both sides. The
driver turned off the engine, got out and
locked the door. He had paperwork to deal
with. He would hand over the keys and re-
ceive a stamped docket with his time of ar-
rival. They would unload the vehicle the fol-
lowing day.

The driver left. Nothing moved. There was

nobody else in the area.

But if anyone had walked past, they might
have seen a remarkable thing. On the side of
the truck, the black-clothed figure of Omni
turned its head. At least, that was what it
would have looked like. But if that person
had looked more closely, they would have
realized that there were two figures on the
truck. One was painted; the other was a real

212/464
person, clinging impossibly to the metal pan-
elling in exactly the same position as the pic-
ture underneath.

Alex Rider dropped silently to the ground.
The muscles in his arms and legs were
screaming and he wondered how much
longer he would have been able to hold on.
Smithers had supplied four powerful mag-
netic clips with the bike and these were what
Alex had used to keep himself in place: two
for his hands, two for his feet. He quickly
pulled off the black ninja suit he had bought
that afternoon in Amsterdam, rolled it up
and stuffed it into a bin. He had been in
plain sight of the guards as the truck drove
through the gate. But the guards hadn’t
looked too closely. They had expected to see
a figure next to the Gameslayer logo and that
was just what they had seen. For once they
had been wrong to believe their eyes.

Alex took stock of his surroundings. He
might be inside the compound, but his luck

213/464
wouldn’t last for ever. He didn’t doubt that
there would be other guards on patrol, and
other cameras too. What exactly was he look-
ing for? The strange thing was, he had no
real idea. But something told him that if
Damian Cray went in for all this security,
then it must be because he had something to
hide. Of course, it was still possible that Alex
was wrong, that Cray was innocent. It was a
comforting thought.

He made his way through the compound,
heading for the great cube that stood at its
heart. He heard a whining sound and ducked
into the shadows next to a wall as an elec-
tronic car sped past with three passengers
and a woman in blue overalls at the wheel.
He became aware of activity somewhere
ahead of him. An open area, brilliantly lit,
stretched out behind one of the warehouses.
A voice suddenly echoed in the air, amplified
by a speaker system. It was a man speaking –
but in Dutch. Alex couldn’t understand a

214/464
word. Moving more quickly, he hurried on,
determined to see what was happening.

He found a narrow alleyway between two
of the buildings and ran the full
length,
grateful for the shadows of the walls. At the
end he came to a fire escape, a metal stair-
case spiralling upwards, and threw himself
breathlessly behind it. He could hide here.
But, looking between the steps, he had a
clear view of what was happening ahead.

There was a square of black tarmac with
glass and steel office blocks on all sides. The
largest of these was the cube that Alex had
seen from outside. Damian Cray was stand-
ing in front of it, talking animatedly to a man
in a white coat, with three more men just be-
hind him. Even from a distance Cray was un-
mistakable. He was the smallest person
there, dressed in yet another designer suit.
He had come out to watch some sort of
demonstration. About half a dozen guards
stood waiting, dotted around the square.

215/464
Harsh white lights were being beamed down
from two metal towers that Alex hadn’t no-
ticed before.

Watching through the fire escape, Alex
saw that there was a cargo plane in the
middle of the square. It took him a moment
or two to accept what he was seeing. There
was no way the plane could have landed
there. The square was only just wide enough
to contain it, and there wasn’t a runway in-
side the compound, as far as he knew. It
must have been carried here on a truck, pos-
sibly assembled on site. But what was it do-
ing here? The plane was an old-fashioned
one. It had propellers rather than jets, and
wings high up, almost sitting on top of the
main body. The words MILLENNIUM AIR
were painted in red along the fuselage and
on the tail.

Cray looked at his watch. A minute later
the loudspeaker crackled again with another
announcement in Dutch. Everyone stopped

216/464
talking and gazed at the plane. Alex stared. A
fire had started inside the main cabin. He
could see the flames flickering behind the
windows. Grey smoke began to seep out of
the fuselage and suddenly one of the pro-
pellers caught alight. The fire seemed to
spread out of control in seconds, consuming
the engine and then spreading across the
wing. Alex waited for
someone to do
something. If there was any fuel in the plane,
it would surely explode at any moment. But
nobody moved. Cray seemed to nod.

It was over as quickly as it had begun. The
man in the white coat spoke into a radio
transmitter and the fire went out. It was ex-
tinguished so quickly that if Alex hadn’t seen
it with his own eyes, he wouldn’t have be-
lieved it had been there in the first place.
They didn’t use water or foam. There were
no scorch marks and no smoke.

One moment the plane had been burning;

the next it wasn’t. It was as simple as that.

217/464
Cray and the three men with him spent a
few seconds talking, before turning and
strolling back into the cube. The guards in
the square marched off. The plane was left
where it was. Alex wondered what on earth
he had got himself into. This had nothing to
do with computer games. It made absolutely
no sense at all.

But at least he had spotted Damian Cray.
Alex waited until the guards had gone,
then twisted out from behind the fire escape.
He made his way as quickly as he could
around the square, keeping in the shadows.
Cray had made a mistake. Breaking into the
compound was virtually impossible, so he
had worried less about security on the inside.
Alex hadn’t spotted any cameras, and the
guards in the towers were looking out rather
than in. For the moment he was safe.

He followed Cray into the building and
found himself crossing the white marble
floor of what was nothing more than a huge

218/464
glass box. Above him he could see the night
sky with the three windmills looming in the
distance. The building contained nothing.
But there was a single round hole in one
corner of the floor and a staircase leading
down.

Alex heard voices.
He crept down the stairs, which led dir-
ectly
into a large underground room.
Crouching on the bottom step, concealed be-
hind wide steel banisters, he watched.

The room was open-plan, with a white
marble floor and corridors leading off in sev-
eral directions. The architecture made him
think of a vault in an ultra-modern bank. But
the gorgeous rugs, the fireplace, the Italian
furniture and the dazzling white Bechstein
grand piano could have come out of a palace.
To one side was a curving desk with a bank
of telephones and computer screens. All the
lighting was at floor level, giving the room a
bizarre, unsettling atmosphere, with all the

219/464
shadows going the wrong way. A portrait of
Damian Cray holding a white poodle covered
an entire wall.

The man himself was sitting on a sofa, sip-
ping a bright yellow drink. He had a cherry
on a cocktail stick and Alex watched him pick
it off with his perfect white teeth and slowly
eat it. The three men from the square were
with him, and Alex knew at once that he had
been right all along – that Cray was indeed at
the centre of the web.

One of the men was Yassen Gregorovich.
Wearing jeans and a polo neck, he was sit-
ting on the piano stool, his legs crossed. The
second man stood near him, leaning against
the piano. He was older, with silver hair and
a sagging, pockmarked face. He was wearing
a blue blazer with a striped tie that made him
look like a minor official in a bank or a crick-
et club. He had large spectacles that had
sunk into his face as if it were damp clay. He
looked nervous, the eyes behind the glass

220/464
circles blinking frequently. The third man
was darkly handsome, in his late forties, with
black hair, grey eyes and a jawline that was
square and serious. He was casually dressed
in a leather jacket and an open-necked shirt
and seemed to be enjoying himself.

Cray was talking to him. “I’m very grateful
to you, Mr Roper. Thanks to you, Eagle
Strike can now proceed on schedule.”

Roper! This was the man Cray had met in
Paris. Alex had a sense that everything had
come full circle. He strained to hear what the
two men were saying.

“Hey – please. Call me Charlie.” The man
spoke with an American accent. “And there’s
no need to thank me, Damian. I’ve enjoyed
doing business with you.”

“I do have a few questions,” Cray mur-
mured, and Alex saw him pick up an object
from a coffee table next to the sofa. It was a
metallic capsule, about the same shape and

221/464
size as a mobile phone. “As I understand it,
the gold codes change daily. Presumably the
flash drive is currently programmed with
today’s codes. But if Eagle Strike were to take
place two days from now…”

“Just plug it in. The flash drive will update
itself,” Roper explained. He had an easy, lazy
smile. “That’s the beauty of it. First it will
burrow through the security systems. Then it
will pick up the new codes … like taking
candy from a baby. The moment you have
the codes, you transmit them back through
Milstar and you’re set. The only problem you
have, like I told you, is the little matter of the
finger on the button.”

“Well, we’ve already solved that,” Cray

said.

“Then I might as well move out of here.”
“Just give me a couple more minutes of
your valuable time, Mr Roper … Charlie…”
Cray said. He sipped his cocktail, licked his

222/464
lips and set the glass down. “How can I be
sure that the flash drive will actually work?”

“You have my word on it,” Roper said.

“And you’re certainly paying me enough.”

“Indeed so. Half a million dollars in ad-
vance. And two million dollars now.
However…” Cray paused and pursed his lips.
“I still have one small worry on my mind.”

Alex’s

leg had gone to sleep as he
crouched, watching the scene from the stairs.
Slowly he straightened it out. He wished he
understood more of what they were saying.
He knew that a flash drive was a type of stor-
age device used in computer technology. But
who or what was Mil-star? And what was
Eagle Strike?

“What’s

the problem?” Roper

asked

casually.

“I’m afraid you are, Mr Roper.” The green
eyes in Cray’s round, babyish face were sud-
denly hard. “You are not as reliable as I had

223/464
hoped. When you came to Paris, you were
followed.”

“That’s not true.”
“An English journalist found out about
your gambling habit. He and a photographer
followed you to la Tour d’Argent.” Cray held
up a hand to stop Roper interrupting. “I have
dealt with them both. But you have disap-
pointed me, Mr Roper. I wonder if I can still
trust you.”

“Now you listen to me, Damian.” Roper
spoke angrily. “We had a deal. I worked here
with your technical boys. I gave them the in-
formation they needed to load the flash
drive, and that’s my part of it over. How
you’re going to get to the VIP lounge and
how you’ll actually activate the system …
that’s your business. But you owe me two
million dollars, and this journalist – whoever
he was – doesn’t make any difference at all.”

“Blood money,” Cray said.

“What?”
“That’s what

traitors.”

224/464

they call money paid to

“I’m no traitor!” Roper growled. “I needed
the money, that’s all. I haven’t betrayed my
country. So quit talking like this, pay me
what you owe me and let me walk out of
here.”

“Of course I’m going to pay you what I owe
you.” Cray smiled. “You’ll have to forgive me,
Charlie. I was just thinking aloud.” He ges-
tured, his hand falling limply back. The
American glanced round and Alex saw that
there was an alcove to one side of the room.
It was shaped like a giant bottle, with a
curved wall behind and a curving glass door
in front. Inside was a table, and on the table
a leather attaché case.

“Your money is in there,” Cray said.
“Thank you.”

225/464
Neither Yassen Gregorovich nor the man
with the spectacles had spoken throughout
all this, but they watched intently as the
American approached the alcove. There must
have been some sort of sensor built into the
door because it slid open automatically. Rop-
er went up to the table and opened the case.
Alex heard the two locks click up.

Then Roper turned round. “I hope this
isn’t your idea of a joke,” he said. “This is
empty.”

Cray smiled at him from the sofa. “Don’t
worry,” he said. “I’ll fill it.” He reached out
and pressed a button on the coffee table in
front of him. There was a hiss and the door
of the alcove slid shut.

“Hey!” Roper shouted.
Cray pressed the button a second time.
For an instant nothing happened. Alex
realized he was no longer breathing. His
heart was beating at twice its normal rate.

226/464
Then something bright and silver dropped
down from somewhere high up inside the
closed-off room,
landing inside the case.
Roper reached in and held up a small coin. It
was a quarter – a twenty-five cent piece.

“Cray! What are you playing at?” he

demanded.

More coins began to fall into the case. Alex
couldn’t see exactly what was happening but
he guessed that the room really was like a
bottle, totally sealed apart from a hole some-
where above. The coins were falling through
the hole, the trickle rapidly turning into a
cascade. In seconds the attaché case was full,
and still the coins came, tumbling onto the
pile, spreading out over the table and onto
the floor.

Perhaps Charlie Roper had an inkling of
what was about to happen. He forced his way
through the shower of coins and pounded on
the glass door. “Stop this!” he shouted. “Let
me out of here!”

227/464
“But I haven’t paid you all your money, Mr
Roper,” Cray replied. “I thought you said I
owed you two million dollars.”

Suddenly the cascade became a torrent.
Thousands and thousands of coins poured
into the room. Roper cried out, bending an
arm over his head, trying to protect himself.
Alex quickly worked out the mathematics.
Two million dollars, twenty-five cents at a
time. The payment was being made in just
about the smallest of small change. How
many coins would there be? Already they
filled all the available floor space, rising up to
the American’s knees. The torrent intensi-
fied. Now the rush of coins was solid and
Roper’s screams were almost drowned out by
the clatter of metal against metal. Alex
wanted to look away but he found himself
fixated, his eyes wide with horror.

He could barely see the man any more.
The coins thundered down. Roper was trying
to swat them away, as if they were a swarm

228/464
of bees. His arms and hands were vaguely
visible but his face and body had disap-
peared. He lashed out with a fist and Alex
saw a smear of blood appear on the door –
but the toughened glass wouldn’t break. The
coins oozed forward, filling every inch of
space. They rose up higher and higher. Roper
was invisible now, sealed into the glittering
mass. If he was still screaming, nothing more
could be heard.

And then, suddenly, it was over. The last
coins fell. A grave of eight million quarters.
Alex shuddered, trying to imagine what it
must have been like to have been trapped in-
side. How had the American died? Had he
been suffocated by the falling coins or
crushed by their weight? Alex had no doubt
that the man inside was dead. Blood money!
Cray’s sick joke couldn’t have been more
true.

Cray laughed.
“That was fun!” he said.

229/464
“Why did you kill him?” The man in the
spectacles had spoken for the first time. He
had a Dutch accent. His voice was trembling.
“Because he was careless, Henryk,” Cray
replied. “We can’t make mistakes, not at this
late stage. And it’s not as if I broke any
promises. I said I’d pay him two million dol-
lars, and if you want to open the door and
count it, two million dollars is exactly what
you’ll find.”

“Don’t open the door!” the man called

Henryk gasped.

“No. I think it would be a bit messy.” Cray
smiled. “Well, we’ve taken care of Roper.
We’ve got the flash drive. We’re all set to go.
So why don’t we have another drink?”

Still crouching at the bottom of the stairs,
Alex gritted his teeth, forcing himself not to
panic. Every instinct told him to get up and
run, but he knew he had to take care. What
he had seen was almost beyond belief – but

230/464
at least his mission was now clear. He had to
get out of the compound, out of Sloterdijk,
and back to England. Like it or not, he had to
go back to MI6.

He knew now that he had been right all
along and that Damian Cray was both mad
and evil. All his posturing – his many charit-
ies and his speeches against violence – was
precisely that; a facade. He was planning
something that he called Eagle Strike, and
whatever it was would take place in two days’
time. It involved a security system and a VIP
lounge. Was he going to break into an em-
bassy? It didn’t matter. Somehow he would
make Alan Blunt and Mrs Jones believe him.
There was a dead man called Charlie Roper.
A connection with the National Security
Agency of America. Surely Alex had enough
information to persuade them to make an
arrest.

But first he had to get out.

231/464
He turned just in time to see the figure
looming above him. It was a guard, coming
down the stairs. Alex started to react, but he
was too late. The guard had seen him. He
was carrying a gun. Slowly Alex raised his
hands. The guard gestured and Alex stood
up, rising above the stair rail. On the other
side of the room, Damian Cray saw him. His
face lit up with delight.

“Alex Rider!” he exclaimed. “I was hoping
to see you again. What a lovely surprise!
Come on over and have a drink – and let me
tell you how you’re going to die.”

PAIN SYNTHESIS

“Yassen has told me all about you,” Cray
said. “Apparently you worked for MI6. I have
to say, that’s a very novel idea. Are you still
working for them now? Did they send you
after me?”

Alex said nothing.
“If you don’t answer my questions, I may
have to start thinking about doing nasty
things to you. Or getting Yassen to do them.
That’s what I pay him for. Pins and needles
… that sort of thing.”

“MI6 don’t know anything,” Yassen said.
He and Cray were alone in the room with
Alex. The guard and the man called Henryk
had gone. Alex was sitting on the sofa with a
glass of chocolate milk that Cray had insisted

233/464
on pouring for him. Cray was now perched
on the piano stool. His legs were crossed and
he seemed completely relaxed as he sipped
another cocktail.

“There’s no way the intelligence services
could know anything about us,” Yassen went
on. “And if they did, they wouldn’t have sent
Alex.”

“Then why was he at the Pleasure Dome?
Why is he here?” Cray turned to Alex. “I
don’t suppose you’ve come all this way to get
my autograph. As a matter of fact, Alex, I’m
rather pleased to see you. I was planning to
come and find you one day anyway. You
completely
of my
Gameslayer. Much too clever by half! I was
very cross with you, and although I’m rather
busy at the moment, I was going to arrange a
little accident…”

launch

spoilt

the

“Like you did for that woman in Hyde

Park?” Alex asked.

234/464
“She was a nuisance. She asked impertin-
ent questions. I hate journalists, and I hate
smart-arse kids too. As I say, I’m very glad
you managed to find your way here. It makes
my life a lot easier.”

“You can’t do anything to me,” Alex said.
“MI6 know I’m here. They know all about
Eagle Strike. You may have the codes, but
you’ll never be able to use them. And if I
don’t report in this evening, this whole place
will be surrounded before tomorrow and
you’ll be in jail…”

Cray glanced at Yassen. The Russian shook
his head. “He’s lying. He must have heard us
talking from the stairs. He knows nothing.”

Cray licked his lips. Alex realized that he
was enjoying himself. He could see now just
how crazy Cray was. The man didn’t connect
with the real world and Alex knew that
whatever he was planning, it was going to be
on a big scale – and probably lethal.

235/464
“It doesn’t make any difference,” Cray
said. “Eagle Strike will have taken place in
less than forty-eight hours from now. I agree
with you, Yassen. This boy knows nothing.
He’s irrelevant. I can kill him and it won’t
make any difference at all.”

“You don’t have to kill him,” Yassen said.
Alex was surprised. The Russian had killed
Ian Rider. He was Alex’s worst enemy. But
this was the second time Yassen had tried to
protect him. “You can just lock him up until
it’s all over.”

“You’re right,” Cray said. “I don’t have to
kill him. But I want to. It’s something I want
to do very much.” He pushed himself off the
piano stool and came over to Alex. “Do you
remember I told you about pain synthesis?”
he said. “In London. The demonstration…
Pain synthesis allows game players to experi-
ence the hero’s emotions – all his emotions,
particularly those associated with pain and
death. You may wonder how I programmed

236/464
it into the software. The answer, my dear
Alex, is by the use of volunteers such as
yourself.”

“I didn’t volunteer,” Alex muttered.
“Nor did the others. But they still helped
me. Just as you will help me. And your re-
ward will be an end to the pain. The comfort
and the quiet of death…” Cray looked away.
“You can take him,” he said.

Two guards had come into the room. Alex
hadn’t heard them approach, but now they
stepped out of the shadows and grabbed hold
of him. He tried to fight back, but they were
too strong for him. They pulled him off the
sofa and away, down one of the passages
leading from the room.

Alex managed to look back one last time.
Cray had already forgotten him. He was
holding the flash drive, admiring it. But
Yassen was watching him and he looked wor-
ried. Then an automatic door shot down with

237/464
a hiss of compressed air and Alex was
dragged away, his feet sliding uselessly be-
hind him,
following the passageway to
whatever it was that Damian Cray had
arranged.

The cell was at the end of another under-
ground corridor. The two guards threw Alex
in, then waited as he turned round to face
them. The one who had found him on the
stairs spoke a few words with a heavy Dutch
accent.

“The door closes and it stays closed. You

find the way out. Or you starve.”

That was it. The door slammed and Alex
heard two bolts being drawn across. He
heard the guards’ footsteps fade into the dis-
tance. Suddenly everything was silent. He
was on his own.

He looked around him. The cell was a bare
metal box about five metres long and two

238/464
metres wide with a single bunk, no water and
no window. The door had closed flush to the
wall. There was no crack round the side, not
so much as a keyhole. He knew he had never
been in worse trouble. Cray hadn’t believed
his story; he had barely even considered it.
Whether Alex was with MI6 or not seemed to
make no difference to him … and the truth
was that this time Alex really had got himself
caught up in something without MI6 there to
back him up. For once he had no gadgets to
help him break out of the cell. He had
brought the bicycle that Smithers had given
him from London to Paris and then to Ams-
terdam. But right now it was parked outside
Central Station in the city and would stay
there until it was stolen or rusted away. Jack
knew he had planned to break into the com-
pound, but even if she did raise the alarm,
how would anyone ever find him? Despair
weighed down on him. He no longer had the
strength to fight it.

239/464
And still he knew almost nothing. Why
had Cray invested so much time and money
in the game system he called Gameslayer?
Why did he need the flash drive? What was
the plane doing in the middle of the com-
pound? Above all, what was Cray planning?
Eagle Strike would take place in two days –
but where, and what would it entail?

Alex forced himself to take control. He’d
been locked up before. The important thing
was to fight back – not to admit defeat. Cray
had already made mistakes. Even speaking
his own name on the phone when Alex called
him from Saint-Pierre had been an error of
judgement. He might have power, fame and
enormous resources. He was certainly plan-
ning a huge operation. But he wasn’t as clev-
er as he thought. Alex could still beat him.

But how to begin? Cray had put him into
this cell to experience what he called pain
synthesis. Alex didn’t like the sound of that.
And what had the guard said? Find the way

240/464
out – or starve. But there was no way out.
Alex ran his hands across the walls. They
were solid steel. He went over and examined
the door a second time. Nothing. It was
tightly sealed. He glanced at the ceiling, at
the single bulb burning behind a thick pane
of glass. That only left the bunk…

He found the trapdoor underneath, built
into the wall. It was like a cat flap, just big
enough to take a human body. Gingerly,
wondering if it might be booby-trapped, Alex
reached out and pushed it. The metal flap
swung inwards. There was some sort of tun-
nel on the other side, but he couldn’t see
anything. If he crawled into it, he would be
entering a narrow space with no light at all –
and he couldn’t even be sure that the tunnel
actually went anywhere. Did he have the
courage to go in?

There was no alternative. Alex examined
the cell one last time, knelt down and pushed
himself forward. The metal flap swung open

241/464
in front of him, then travelled down his back
as he crawled into the tunnel. He felt it hit
the back of his heels and there was a soft
click. What was that? He couldn’t see any-
thing. He lifted a hand and waved it in front
of his face. It was as if it wasn’t there. He
reached out in front of him and felt a solid
wall. God! He had walked – crawled rather –
into a trap. This wasn’t the way out after all.

He pushed himself back the way he had
come, and that was when he discovered the
flap was now locked. He kicked out with his
feet but it wouldn’t move. Panic, total and
uncontrollable, overwhelmed him. He was
buried alive, in total darkness, with no air.
This was what Cray had meant by pain syn-
thesis: a death too hideous to imagine.

Alex went mad.
Unable to control himself, he screamed
out, his fists lashing against the walls of this
metal coffin. He was suffocating.

242/464
His flailing hand hit a section of the wall
and he felt it give way. There was a second
flap! Gasping for air, he twisted round and
into a second tunnel, as black and as chilling
as the first. But at least there was some faint
flicker of hope burning in his consciousness.
There was a way through. If he could just
keep a grip on himself, he might yet find his
way back into the light.

The second tunnel was

longer. Alex
slithered forward, feeling the sheet metal un-
der his hands. He forced himself to slow
down. He was still completely blind. If there
was a hole ahead of him, he would plunge in-
to it before he knew what had happened. As
he went, he tapped against the walls, search-
ing for other passageways. His head knocked
into something and he swore. The bad lan-
guage helped him. It was good to direct his
hatred against Damian Cray. And hearing his
own voice reminded him he was still alive.

243/464
He had bumped into a ladder. He took
hold of it with both hands and felt for the
opening that must be above his shoulders.
He was lying flat on his stomach, but slowly
he manipulated himself round and began to
climb up, feeling his way in case there was a
ceiling overhead. His hand came into contact
with something and he pushed. To his huge
relief, light flooded in. He had opened some
sort of trapdoor with a large, brightly lit
room on the other side. Gratefully he
climbed the last rungs and passed through.

The air was warm. Alex sucked it into his
lungs, allowing his feelings of panic and
claustrophobia to fade away. Then he looked
up.

He was kneeling on a straw-covered floor
in a room that was bathed in yellow light.
Three of the walls seemed to have been built
with huge blocks of stone. Blazing torches
slanted in towards him, fixed to metal brack-
ets. Gates at least ten metres high stood in

244/464
front of him. They were made out of wood,
with iron fastenings and a huge face carved
into the surface. Some sort of Mexican god
with saucer eyes and solid, block-like teeth.
Alex had seen the face before but it took him
a few moments to work out where. And then
he knew exactly what lay ahead of him. He
knew how Cray had programmed pain syn-
thesis into his game.

The gates had appeared at the start of
Feathered Serpent, the game that Alex had
played in the Pleasure Dome in Hyde Park.
Then it had been a computerized image, pro-
jected onto a screen – and Alex had been
represented by an avatar, a two-dimensional
version of himself. But Cray had also built an
actual physical version of the game. Alex
reached out and touched one of the walls.
Sure enough, they weren’t really stone but
some sort of toughened plastic. The whole
thing was like one of those walk-throughs at
Disneyland … an ancient world reproduced

245/464
with high-tech modern construction. There
had been a time when Alex wouldn’t have be-
lieved it possible, but he knew with a sick
certainty that once the gates opened, he
would find himself in a perfect reconstruc-
tion of the game – and that meant he would
be facing the same challenges. Only this time
it would be for real: real flames, real acid,
real spears and – if he made a mistake – real
death.

Cray had told him that he had used other
“volunteers”. Presumably they had been
filmed fighting their way through the various
challenges; and all the time their emotions
had been recorded and then somehow digit-
ally transferred and programmed into the
Gameslayer system. It was sick. Alex realized
that the darkness of the underground pas-
sages hadn’t even been part of the real chal-
lenge. That began now.

He didn’t move. He needed time to think,
to remember as much as he could about the

246/464
game he had played at the Pleasure Dome.
There had been five zones. First some sort of
temple, with a crossbow and a sword con-
cealed in the walls. Would Cray provide him
with weapons in this reconstruction? He
would have to wait and see. What came after
the temple? There had been a pit with a fly-
ing creature: half butterfly, half dragon. After
that Alex had run down a corridor – spears
shooting out of the walls – and into a jungle,
the home of the metallic snakes. Then there
had been a mirror maze guarded by Aztec
gods and finally a pool of fire, his exit to the
next level.

A pool of fire. If that was reproduced here,
it would kill him. Alex remembered what
Cray had said. The comfort and the quiet of
death. There was no way out of this mad-
house. If he did manage to survive the five
zones, he would be allowed to finish it by
throwing himself into the flames.

247/464
Alex felt hatred well up inside him. He
could actually taste it. Damian Cray was bey-
ond evil.

What could he do? There would be no way
back through the tunnels and Alex wasn’t
sure he had the nerve even to try. He had
only one choice, and that was to continue.
He had almost beaten the game once. That at
least gave him a little hope. On the other
hand,
there was a world of difference
between manipulating a controller and actu-
ally attempting the action himself. He
couldn’t move or react with the speed of an
electronic figure. Nor would he be given ex-
tra lives. If he was killed once, he would stay
dead.

He stood up. At once the gates swung si-
lently open, and there ahead of him was the
temple that he had last seen in the game. He
wondered if his progress was being mon-
itored. Could he at least rely on an element
of surprise?

248/464
He walked through the gates. The temple
was exactly how he remembered it from the
screen at the Pleasure Dome: a vast space
with stone walls covered in strange carvings
and pillars, statues crouching at their base,
stretching far above him. Even the stained-
glass windows had been reproduced with im-
ages of UFOs hovering over fields of golden
corn. And there too were the cameras, swiv-
elling to follow him and, presumably, to re-
cord whatever progress he made. Organ mu-
sic, modern rather than religious, throbbed
all around him. Alex shivered, barely able to
accept that this was really happening.

He walked further into the temple, every
sense alert, waiting for an attack that he
knew could come from any direction. He
wished now that he had played Feathered
Serpent more carefully. He had raced
through the zones at such speed that he had
probably missed half of the ambushes. His
feet rang out on the silver floor. Ahead of

249/464
him, rusting staircases that reminded him of
a submarine or a submerged ship twisted up-
wards. He thought of trying one of them. But
he hadn’t gone that way when he was playing
the game and preferred not to now. It was
better to stick with what he knew.

The alcove that contained the crossbow
was underneath a wooden pulpit, carved in
the shape of a dragon. It was almost com-
pletely covered by what looked like green ivy
– but Alex knew that the twisting vines car-
ried an electrical charge. He could see the
weapon resting against the stonework, and
there was just enough of a gap. Was it worth
the risk? Alex tensed himself, preparing to
reach in, then threw himself full length on
the floor. Half a second later and it would
have been fatal. He had remembered the
razor boomerang at the same instant that he
had heard a whistling sound coming from
nowhere. He had no time to prepare himself.
He hit the ground so hard that the breath

250/464
was driven out of him. There was a flash and
a series of sparks. He felt a burning pain
across his shoulders and knew that he hadn’t
been quite fast enough. The boomerang had
sliced open his T-shirt, also cutting his skin.
It had been a close thing. Any closer and he
wouldn’t even have made it into the second
zone.
And

cameras watched.
Everything was being recorded. One day it
would be fed into Cray’s software – presum-
ably Feathered Serpent 2.

silently

the

Alex sat up and tried to pull his torn shirt
together. At least the boomerang had helped
in one way. It had hit the ivy, cutting and
short-circuiting the
electric wires. Alex
stretched an arm into the alcove and took
out the crossbow. It was antique – wood and
iron – but it seemed to be working. Even so,
Cray had cheated him. There was an arrow in
it, but it had no point. It was too blunt to
damage anything.

251/464
He decided to take both the crossbow and
the arrow with him anyway. He moved away
from the alcove and over to the wall where
he knew he would find the sword. It was
about twenty metres above him but there
were loose stones and handholds indicating a
way up. Alex was about to start climbing but
then he had second thoughts. He had already
had one close escape. The wall would almost
certainly be booby-trapped. He would be
halfway up and a stone would come loose. If
he fell, he would break a leg. Cray would en-
joy that, watching him lie helpless on the sil-
ver floor until some other missile was fired
into him to finish him off. And anyway, the
sword would probably have no blade.

But thinking about it, Alex suddenly real-
ized that he had the answer. He knew how to
beat the simulated world that Cray had built.
Every computer game is a series of pro-
grammed events, with nothing random,
nothing left to chance. When Alex had played

252/464
the game in the Pleasure Dome, he had col-
lected the crossbow and then used it to shoot
the creature that had attacked him. In the
same way, locked doors would have keys;
poisons would have antidotes. No matter
how much choice you might seem to have,
you were always obeying a hidden set of
rules.

But Alex had not been programmed. He
was a human being and he could do what he
wanted. It had cost him a torn shirt and a
very narrow escape – but he had learnt his
lesson. If he hadn’t tried to get the crossbow,
he wouldn’t have made himself a target for
the boomerang. Climbing up the wall to get
the sword would put him in danger because
he would be doing exactly what was
expected.

To get out of the world that Cray had built
for him, he had to do everything that wasn’t
expected.

In other words he had to cheat.

253/464

And he would start right now.
He went over to one of the blazing torches
and tried to remove it from the wall. He
wasn’t surprised to find that the whole thing
was bolted into place. Cray had thought of
everything. But even if he controlled the
holders, he couldn’t control the flames them-
selves. Alex pulled off his shirt and wrapped
it round the end of the wooden arrow. Then
he set it on fire. He smiled to himself. Now
he had a weapon that hadn’t been
programmed.

The exit door was at the far end of the
temple. Alex was supposed to take a direct
path to it. Instead, he went the long way
round, staying close to the walls, avoiding
any traps that might be lying in wait. Ahead
of him he could see the second chamber –
the rain-drenched pit with its pillars rising
from the depths below and ending at floor
level. He passed through the door and
stopped on a narrow ledge; the tops of the

254/464
pillars – barely bigger than soup plates –
offered him a path of stepping stones across
the void. Alex remembered the
flying
creature that had attacked him. He looked
up. Yes, there it was, almost lost in the
gloom: a nylon wire running from the oppos-
ite side to the door above his head. He thrust
upwards with the burning arrow, holding the
flame against the wire.

It worked. The wire caught fire and then
snapped. Cray had built a robotic version of
the creature that had attacked him in the
game. Alex knew that it would have swooped
down when he was halfway across, rushing
into him and knocking him off his perch,
causing him to plunge into whatever lay be-
low. Now he watched with quiet satisfaction
as the creature tumbled down from the ceil-
ing and dangled in front of him, a jumble of
metal and feathers that was more like a dead
parrot than a mythical monster.

255/464
The way ahead was clear but the rain was
still falling, splashing down from some hid-
den sprinkler system. The stepping stones
would be slippery. Alex knew that his avatar
would have been unable to remove its shoes
for better grip. He quickly slipped off his
trainers, tied them together and hung them
round his neck. His socks went into his pock-
et. Then he jumped. The trick, he knew, was
to do this quickly: not to stop, not to look
down. He took a breath, then started. The
rain blinded him. The tops of the pillars were
only just big enough to contain his bare feet.
On the very last one he lost his balance. But
he didn’t have to use his feet – he could
move in a way that his avatar couldn’t. He
threw himself forward, stretching out his
hands and allowing his own momentum to
carry him towards safety. His chest hit the
ground and he clung on, dragging his legs
over the edge of the pit. He had made it to
the other side.

256/464
A corridor ran off to the left, the walls
close together and decorated with hideous
Aztec faces. Alex remembered how his avatar
had run through here, dodging between a
hail of wooden spears. He glanced down and
saw that
looked like a
there was what
smoking stream in the floor.

Acid! What now?
He needed another weapon and he had an
idea how to get one. He took out his socks,
rolled them into a ball and threw them down
the corridor. As he had hoped, the move-
ment was enough to activate the sensors that
controlled the hidden guns. Short wooden
spears spat out of the lips of the Aztec gods
at
fantastic speed, striking the opposite
walls. One of the spears broke in half. Alex
picked it up and felt the needle-sharp point.
It was exactly what he wanted. He tucked it
into the belt of his trousers. He still had the
crossbow; now he had a bolt that might fit it
too.

The

257/464
computer game had been pro-
grammed so that there was only one way for-
ward. Alex had been able to dodge both the
spears and the acid river easily enough when
he was playing Feathered Serpent. But he
knew he would be unable to do the same in
this grotesque three-dimensional version. He
would only have to take one false step and he
would be finished. He could imagine splash-
ing into the acid and then panicking. He
would be driven straight into the path of the
spears as he tried to reach the next zone. No.
There had to be another way.

Alex forced himself to concentrate. Ignore
the rules! He turned the three words over
and over in his mind. Moving along the cor-
ridor wasn’t an option. But how about up?
He put on his shoes, then took a tentative
step. The spears nearest the entrance had
already been fired. He was safe so long as he
didn’t move too far down the corridor. He
grabbed hold of the wall and, balancing the

258/464
crossbow over his shoulder, began to climb.
The Aztec heads made perfect footholds, and
only when he was at the very top did he be-
gin to make his way along, high above the
floor and away from danger. One step at a
time, he edged forward. He came to a camera
mounted in the ceiling and, with a smile,
wrenched out the wire. There was a lot of it
and he decided to keep that too.

He reached the end of the corridor and
climbed down into the fourth zone,
the
jungle. He was surprised to discover that the
vegetation pressing in on him from all sides
was real. He had expected plastic and paper.
He could feel the heat in the air and the
ground underfoot was soft and wet. What
traps were waiting for him here? He re-
membered the robotic snakes that had barely
managed to get close when he played the
game, and searched warily for the tracks that
would propel something similar his way.

259/464
There were no tracks. Alex took another
step forward and stopped, paralysed by the
horror of what he saw.

There was a snake, and, like the leaves and
the creepers, it was real. It was as thick as a
man’s waist and at least five metres long, ly-
ing motionless in a patch of long grass. Its
eyes were two black diamonds. For a brief
second, Alex hoped it might be dead. But
then its tongue flickered out and the whole
body heaved, and he knew that he was facing
a living thing – one that was beyond
nightmares.

The snake had been encased in a fantastic
body suit. Alex had no idea how long it could
have survived wrapped up like this. As terri-
fying as the creature was, he still felt a spark
of pity for it, seeing what had been done. The
suit was made out of wire that had been twis-
ted round and round the full length of the
animal, with vicious spikes and razors wel-
ded on from the neck all the way to the tail.

260/464
Looking past the tail, Alex could see dozens
of lines cut into the soft ground. Whatever
the snake touched, it sliced. It couldn’t help
itself. And it was slithering towards him.

He couldn’t have moved if he had wanted
to, but something told him that keeping still
was the only chance he had. The snake had
to be some sort of boa constrictor, part of the
Boidae family. A useless piece of information
he had picked up in biology class suddenly
came back to him. The snake ate mainly
birds and monkeys, finding its victims by
smell, then coiling round and suffocating
them. But Alex knew that if the snake at-
tacked him, this wouldn’t be how he would
die. The razors and spikes would cut him to
pieces.

And it was getting closer. Wave after wave
of glinting silver rippled behind it as it
dragged the razors along. Now it was just a
metre away. Moving very slowly, Alex
lowered the crossbow from his shoulder. He

261/464
pulled the wire back to load it, then reached
into the waistband of his trousers. The
broken spear was still there. Trying not to
give the snake any reason to attack him, Alex
fixed the length of wood into the stock. He
was lucky. The spear was exactly the right
length.

He wasn’t meant to have a weapon in this
zone. That hadn’t been part of the program.
But despite everything Cray had thrown at
him he still had the crossbow and now it was
loaded.

Alex cried out. He couldn’t help himself.
The snake had suddenly jerked forward,
dragging itself over his trainer. The razors
cut into the soft material, only millimetres
away from his foot. He instinctively kicked
out. At once the snake reared back. Alex saw
black flames ignite in its eyes. Its tongue
flickered. It was about to launch itself at him.
He brought the crossbow round and fired.
There was nothing else he could do. The bolt

262/464
entered the snake’s mouth and continued out
of the back of its head. Alex leapt back,
avoiding the deadly convulsions of
the
creature’s body. The snake thrashed and
twisted, cutting the grass and the nearby
bushes to shreds. Then it lay still. Alex knew
that he had killed it, and he wasn’t sorry.
What had been done to the snake was revolt-
ing. He was glad he had put it out of its
misery.

There was one more zone left – the mirror
maze. Alex knew that there would be Aztec
gods waiting for him. Probably guards in
fancy dress. Even if he got past them, he
would only find himself facing the pool of
fire. But he’d had enough. To hell with Dami-
an Cray. He looked up. He had disabled one
of the security cameras and there weren’t any
others in view. He had found a blind spot in
this insane playground. That suited him
perfectly.

It was time to find his own way out.

THE TRUTH ABOUT ALEX

There are no gods crueller or more fero-
cious than those of the Aztecs. That was the
reason why Damian Cray had chosen them to
inhabit his computer game.

He had summoned three of them to patrol
the mirror maze, the fifth and last zone in
the huge arena he had built beneath the
compound. Tlaloc, the god of rain, was half
human, half alligator, with jagged teeth,
claw-like hands and a thick scaly tail that
dragged behind him. Xipe Totec, the lord of
spring, had torn out his own eyes. They were
still dangling in front of his gruesome, pain-
distorted face. And Xolotl, bringer of fire,
walked on feet that had been smashed and
wrenched round to face backwards. Flames

264/464
leapt out of his hands, reflected a hundred
times in the mirrors and adding to the twist-
ing clouds of smoke.

Of course, there was nothing supernatural
about the three creatures waiting for Alex to
appear. Beneath the grotesque masks, the
plastic skin and make-up, they were nothing
more than criminals, recently released from
Bijlmer, the largest prison in the Nether-
lands. They now worked as guards for Cray
Software Technology, but they had special
duties too. This was one of them. The three
men were armed with curved swords,
javelins, steel claws and flame-throwers.
They were looking forward to using them.

It was the one dressed as Xolotl who saw

Alex first.

The camera in zone three had gone down,
so there had been no way of knowing if Alex
was on his way or if the snake had finished
him. But suddenly there was a movement.
The guard saw a figure lurch round a corner,

265/464
naked to the waist. The boy was making no
attempt to hide, and the guard saw why.

Alex Rider was soaked in blood. His entire
chest was bright red. His mouth was opening
and closing, but no sound came out. Then
the guard saw the wooden spear sticking out
of his chest. The boy had obviously tried to
run down the corridor but hadn’t quite made
it. One of the spears had found its target.

Alex saw the guard and stopped. He
dropped to his knees. One hand pointed
limply at the spear, then fell. He looked up-
wards and tried to speak. More blood
trickled out of his mouth. His eyes closed
and he pitched to one side. He didn’t move
again.

The guard relaxed. The boy’s death meant
nothing to him. He reached into the pocket
of his chain-mail shirt and took out a radio
transmitter.

266/464
“It’s over,” he said, speaking in Dutch.

“The boy’s been killed by a spear.”

Neon strips flickered on throughout the
game zone. In the harsh white light the dif-
ferent zones seemed cruder, more like fair-
ground attractions. The guards, too, looked
ridiculous in their fancy dress. The dangling
eyes were painted ping-pong balls. The al-
ligator body was nothing more than a rubber
suit. The backward-facing feet could have
come out of a joke shop. The three of them
formed a circle around Alex.

“He’s still breathing,” one of them said.
“Not for much longer.” The second guard
glanced at the point of the spear, covered in
rapidly congealing blood.

“What shall we do with him?”
“Leave him here. It’s not our job. Disposal

can pick him up later.”

They walked away. One of them stopped
beside a wall, painted to look like crumbling

267/464
stone, and pulled open a concealed panel to
reveal a button. He pressed it and the wall
slid open. There was a brightly lit corridor on
the other side. The three men went off to
change.

Alex opened his eyes.
The trick he had played was so old that he
was almost ashamed. If it had been done on
the stage, it wouldn’t have fooled a six-year-
old. But he supposed that circumstances
were a little different here.

Left on his own in the miniature jungle, he
had reclaimed the broken spear that he had
used to kill the snake. He had tied it to his
chest using the wire he had torn out of the
security camera. Then he had covered him-
self with blood taken from the dead snake.
That had been the worst part, but he’d had to
make sure that the illusion would work.
Steeling himself, he had scooped up some
more of the blood and put it in his mouth.
He could still taste it now and he was having

268/464
to force himself not to swallow. But it had
fooled the men completely. None of them
had looked too closely. They had seen what
they wanted to see.

Alex waited until he was certain he was
alone, then sat up and untied the spear. He
would just have to hope that the cameras had
all been turned off when the game had
ended. The exit was still open and Alex stole
through, leaving the make-believe world be-
hind him. He found himself in an ordinary
corridor, stretching into the distance with
tiled walls and plain wooden doors on either
side. He knew that although the immediate
danger was behind him, he could hardly af-
ford to start relaxing yet. He was half naked
and covered in blood. He was still trapped in
the heart of the compound. And it could only
be a matter of time before someone dis-
covered that the body had disappeared and
realized the trick that had been played.

269/464
He opened the first of the doors. It led into
a storage cupboard. The second and third
doors were locked, but halfway down the
corridor he found a changing room with
showers, lockers and a laundry basket. Alex
knew that
it would cost him precious
minutes, but he had to get clean. He stripped
and showered, then dried himself and got
dressed again. Before he left the room he
searched through the laundry basket and
found a shirt to replace the one he had burnt.
The shirt was dirty and two sizes too big, but
he pulled it on gratefully.

Carefully he opened the door – and
quickly closed it again as two men walked
past, talking in Dutch. They seemed to be
heading for the mirror maze, and Alex hoped
they weren’t part of the disposal team. If so,
the alarm would be raised at any moment.
He counted the seconds until they had gone,
then crept out and hurried the other way.

270/464
He came to a staircase. He had no idea
where it went, but he was certain he had to
go up.

The stairs led to a circular area with sever-
al corridors leading off it. There were no win-
dows. The only illumination came from in-
dustrial lights set at intervals in the ceiling.
He looked at his watch. It was eleven fifteen.
Two and a quarter hours had passed since he
had first broken into the compound; it felt
much longer. He thought about Jack, waiting
for him in the hotel
in Amsterdam. She
would be out of her mind with worry.

Everything was silent. Alex guessed that
most of Cray’s people would be asleep. He
chose a corridor and followed it to another
staircase. Again he went up, and found him-
self in a room that he knew. Cray’s study.
The room where he had seen the man called
Charlie Roper die.

Alex was almost afraid to go in. But the
room was deserted and, peering through the

271/464
opening, he could see that the bottle-shaped
chamber had been cleared, the money and
the body taken away. It seemed strange to
him that there should be no guard assigned
to this room, at the very heart of Cray’s net-
work. But then again, why should there be?
All the security was centred on the main
gate. Alex was supposedly dead. Cray had
nothing to fear.

Ahead of him was the staircase that he
knew would lead up to the glass cube and out
onto the square. But as tempted as he was to
race over to it, Alex realized he would never
have another opportunity like this. Some-
where in the back of his mind, he knew that
even if he made it to MI6, he still had no real
proof that Cray wasn’t just the pop celebrity
and businessman that everyone thought.
Alan Blunt and Mrs Jones hadn’t believed
him the last time he’d seen them. They might
not believe him again.

272/464
Ignoring his first instincts, Alex went over
to the desk. There were about a dozen
framed photographs on the surface, each and
every one showing a picture of Damian Cray.
Ignoring them, Alex turned his attention to
the drawers. They were unlocked. The lower
drawers contained dozens of different docu-
ments but most of them were nothing more
than lists of figures and hardly looked prom-
ising. Then he came to the last drawer and
let out a gasp of disbelief. The metallic cap-
sule that Cray had been holding when he
talked to the American was simply sitting
there. Alex picked it up and weighed it in the
palm of his hand. The flash drive. It con-
tained computer codes. Its job was to break
through some sort of security system. It had
come with a price tag of two and a half mil-
lion dollars. It had cost Roper his life.

And Alex had it! He wanted to examine it,
but he could do that later. He slipped it into

273/464
his trouser pocket and hurried over to the
stairs.

Ten minutes later the alarms sounded
throughout the compound. The two men that
Alex had seen had indeed gone into the mir-
ror maze to pick up the body and discovered
that it wasn’t there. They should have raised
the alarm at once, but there had been a
delay. The men had assumed that one of the
other teams must have collected it and had
gone to find them. It was only when they dis-
covered the dead snake and the spear with
the coil of wire that they put together what
had taken place.

While this was happening, a van was driv-
ing out of the compound. Neither the tired
guards at the gate nor the driver had noticed
the figure lying flat, spreadeagled on the
roof. But why should they? The van was leav-
ing, not arriving. It didn’t even stop in front
of the security cameras. The guard merely
checked the driver’s ID and opened the gate.

274/464
The alarm rang seconds after the van had
passed through.

There was a system in place at Cray Soft-
ware Technology. Nobody was allowed to
enter or leave during a security alert. Every
van was equipped with a two-way radio and
the guard at the gate immediately signalled
to the driver and told him to return. The
driver stopped before he had even reached
the traffic light and wearily obeyed. But it
was already too late.

Alex slipped off the roof and dropped to

the ground. Then he ran off into the night.

Damian Cray was back in his office, sitting
on the sofa holding a glass of milk. He had
been in bed when the alarm went off and
now he was wearing a silver dressing gown,
dark blue pyjamas and soft cotton slippers.
Something bad had happened to his face.
The life had drained out of it, leaving behind

275/464
a cold, empty mask that could have been cut
out of glass. A single vein throbbed above
one of his glazed eyes.

Cray had just discovered that the flash
drive had been taken from his desk. He had
searched all the drawers, ripping them out,
upturning them and scattering their contents
across the floor. Then, with an inarticulate
howl of rage, he had thrown himself onto the
desktop, flailing about with his arms and
sending telephones,
files and photograph
frames flying. He had smashed a paper-
weight into his computer screen, shattering
the glass. And then he had sat down on the
sofa and called for a glass of milk.

Yassen Gregorovich had watched all this
without speaking. He too had been called
from his room by the alarm bells, but, unlike
Cray, he hadn’t been asleep. Yassen never
slept for more than four hours. The night
was too valuable. He might go for a run or
work out in the gym. He might listen to

276/464
classical music. On this night he had been
working with a tape recorder and a well-
thumbed exercise book. He was teaching
himself Japanese, one of the nine languages
he had made it his business to learn.

Yassen had heard the alarms and known
instinctively that Alex Rider had escaped. He
had turned off the tape recorder. And he had
smiled.

Now he waited for Cray to break the si-
lence. It had been Yassen who had suggested
quietly that Cray should look for the flash
drive. He wondered if he would get the
blame for the theft.

“He was meant to be dead!” Cray moaned.
“They told me he was dead!” He glanced at
Yassen, suddenly angry. “You knew he’d
been in here.”

“I suspected it,” Yassen said.
“Why?”

277/464
Yassen considered. “Because he’s Alex,” he

said simply.

“Then tell me about him!”
“There is only so much I can tell you.”
Yassen stared into the distance. His face gave
nothing away. “The truth about Alex is that
there is not a boy in the world like him,” he
began, speaking slowly and softly. “Consider
for a moment. Tonight you tried to kill him –
and not just simply with a bullet or a knife,
but in a way that should have terrified him.
He escaped and he found his way here. He
must have seen the stairs. Any other boy –
any man even – would have climbed them
instantly. His only desire would have been to
get out of here. But not Alex. He stopped; he
searched. That is what makes him unique,
and that is why he is so valuable to MI6.”

“How did he find his way here?”

278/464
“I don’t know. If you’d allowed me to ques-
tion him before you sent him into that game
of yours, I might have been able to find out.”
“This is not my fault, Mr Gregorovich! You
should have killed him in the South of
France when you had the chance.” Cray
drank the milk and set the glass down. He
had a white moustache on his upper lip.
“Why didn’t you?” he demanded.

“I tried…”
“That nonsense in the bullring! That was

stupid. I think you knew he’d escape.”

“I hoped he might,” Yassen agreed. He was
beginning to get bored with Cray. He didn’t
like being asked to explain himself, and
when he spoke again it was almost as much
for his own benefit as Cray’s. “I knew him…”
he said.

“You mean … before Saint-Pierre?”
“I met him once. But even then … I knew
him already. The moment I saw him, I knew

279/464
who he was and what he was. The image of
his father…” Yassen stopped himself. He had
already said more than he had meant to. “He
knows nothing of this,” he muttered. “No one
has ever told him the truth.”

But Cray was no longer interested. “I can’t
do anything without the flash drive,” he
moaned, and suddenly there were tears
brimming in his eyes. “It’s all over! Eagle
Strike! All the planning. Years and years of it.
Millions of pounds. And it’s all your fault!”
So there it was at last, the finger of blame.
For a few seconds, Yassen Gregorovich
was seriously tempted to kill Damian Cray. It
would be very quick: a three-finger strike in-
to the pale, flabby throat. Yassen had worked
for many evil people – not that he ever
thought of them in terms of good and evil.
All that mattered to him was how much they
were prepared to pay. Some of them – Herod
Sayle, for example – had planned to kill mil-
lions of people. The numbers were irrelevant

280/464
to Yassen. People died all the time. He knew
that every time he drew a breath, at that ex-
act moment, somewhere in the world a hun-
dred or a thousand people would be taking
their last. Death was everywhere; it could not
be measured.

But recently something inside him had
changed. Perhaps it was meeting Alex again
that had done it; perhaps it was his age. Al-
though Yassen looked as if he was in his late
twenties, he was in fact thirty-five. He was
getting old. Too old, anyway, for his line of
work. He was beginning to think it might be
time to stop.

And that was why he now decided not to
murder Damian Cray. Eagle Strike was only
two days away. It would make him richer
than he could have dreamt and it would al-
low him to return, at last, to his homeland,
Russia. He would buy a house in St Peters-
burg and live comfortably, perhaps doing oc-
casional business with the Russian mafia.

281/464
The city was teeming with criminal activity
and for a man with his wealth and experi-
ence, anything would be possible.

Yassen stretched out a hand, the same
hand he would have used to strike his em-
ployer down. “You worry too much,” he said.
“For all we know, Alex may still be in the
compound. But even if he has made it
through the gate, he can’t have gone far. He
has to get out of Sloterdijk and back to Ams-
terdam. I have already instructed every man
we have to get out there and find him. If he
tries
into the city, he will be
to get
intercepted.”

“How do you know he’s going into the

city?” Cray demanded.

“It’s the middle of the night. Where else
could he go?” Yassen stood up and yawned.
“Alex Rider will be back here before sunrise
and you will have your flash drive.”

“Good.” Cray looked at

282/464
the wreckage
scattered across the floor. “And next time I
get my hands on him I’ll make sure he
doesn’t walk away. Next time I’ll deal with
him myself.”

Yassen said nothing. Turning his back on
Damian Cray, he walked slowly out of the
room.

PEDAL POWER

The local train pulled into Amsterdam’s
Central Station and began to slow down.
Alex was sitting on his own, his face resting
against the window, barely conscious of the
long, empty platforms or the great canopy
stretching over his head. It was around mid-
night and he was exhausted. He knew Jack
would be frantic, waiting for him at the hotel.
He was eager to see her. He suddenly felt a
need to be looked after. He just wanted a hot
bath, a hot chocolate … and bed.

The first time he had gone out to Sloter-
dijk, he had cycled both ways. But the second
time, he had saved his energy and left the
bike at the station. The journey back was
short but he was enjoying it, knowing that

284/464
every second put Cray and his compound a
few more metres behind him. He also needed
the time to think about what he had just
been through, to try to understand what it all
meant. A plane that burst into flames. A VIP
lounge. Something called Milstar. The man
with the pock-marked face…

And he still had no answer to the biggest
question of all. Why was Cray doing all this?
He was massively rich. He had fans all over
the world. Only a few days ago he had been
shaking hands with the president of the Un-
ited States. His music was still played on the
radio and his every appearance drew massive
crowds. The Gameslayer system would make
him another fortune. If ever there was a man
who had no need to conspire and to kill, it
was him.

Eagle Strike.
What did the two words mean?

285/464
The train came to a halt; the doors hissed
open. Alex checked that the flash drive was
still in his pocket and got out.

There was barely anyone around on the
platform but the main ticket hall was more
crowded. Students and other young travel-
lers were arriving on the international lines.
Some of them were slumped on the floor,
leaning against oversized rucksacks. They all
looked spaced out in the hard, artificial light.
Alex guessed it would take him about ten
minutes to cycle down to the hotel on the
Herengracht. If he was awake enough to re-
member where it was.

He passed through the heavy glass doors
and found his bike where he had left it,
chained to some railings. He had just un-
locked it when he stopped, sensing the
danger before he even saw it. This was
something he had never learnt. Even his
uncle, who had spent years training him to
be a spy, would have been unable to explain

286/464
it; the instinct that now told him he had to
move – and fast. He looked around him.
There was a wide cobbled area leading down
to an expanse of water, with the city beyond.
A kiosk selling hot dogs was still open. Saus-
ages were turning over a burner but there
was no sign of the vendor. A few couples
were strolling across the bridges over the
canals, enjoying a night that had become
warm and dry. The sky wasn’t black so much
as a deep midnight blue.

Somewhere a clock struck the hour, the

chimes echoing across the city.

Alex noticed a car, parked so that it faced
the station. Its headlamps blinked on, throw-
ing a beam of light across the square towards
him. A moment later a second car did the
same. Then a third. All three cars were the
same: two-seater Smart cars. More lights
came on. There were six vehicles parked in a
semicircle around him, covering every angle
of the station square. They were all black.

287/464
With their short bodies and slightly bulbous
driving compartments, they looked almost
like toys. But Alex knew with a feeling of cold
certainty that they weren’t here for fun.

Doors swung open. Men stepped out,
turned into black silhouettes by their own
headlamps. For a split
second nobody
moved. They had him. There was nowhere
for him to go.

Alex stretched out his left thumb, moving
it towards the bell that still looked ridicu-
lous, attached to the handlebar of his bike.
There was a small silver lever sticking out.
Pushing it would ring the bell. Alex pulled.
The top of the bell sprang open to reveal five
buttons inside, each one a different colour.
Smithers had described them in the manual.
They were colour-coded for ease of use. Now
it was time to find out if they worked.

As if sensing that something was about to
happen, the black shadows had begun to
move across the square. Alex pressed the

288/464
orange button and felt the shudder beneath
his hands as two tiny heat-seeking missiles
exploded out of the ends of the handlebars.
Trailing orange flames, they shot across the
square. Alex saw the men stop, uncertain.
The missiles soared into the air, then curved
back, their movement perfectly synchron-
ized. As Alex had suspected, the hottest thing
in the square was the grill in the hot-dog
kiosk. The missiles fell on it, both striking at
exactly the same time. There was a huge ex-
plosion, a fireball of flame that spread across
the cobbles and was reflected in the water of
the canal. Burning fragments of wood and
pieces of sausage rained down. The blast
hadn’t been strong enough to kill anyone,
but it had created the perfect diversion. Alex
grabbed the bike and dragged it back into the
station. The square was blocked. This was
the only way.

But even as he re-entered the ticket hall,
he saw other men running across the

289/464
concourse towards him. At this time of night
the crowds were moving slowly. Anyone run-
ning had to have a special reason, and Alex
knew for certain that the reason was him.
Cray’s men must have been in radio contact
with each other. Now that one group had
spotted him, they would all know where he
was.

He jumped on the bike and pedalled along
the flat stone floor as fast as he could: past
the ticket booths, the newspaper kiosks, the
information boards and the ramps leading
up to the platforms, trying to put as much
space as he could between himself and his
pursuers. A woman pushing a motorized
cleaning machine stepped in front of him
and he had to swerve, almost knocking over
a bearded man with a vast rucksack. The
man swore at him in German. Alex raced on.
There was a door at the very end of the
main hall, but before he could reach it, it
burst open and more men came running in,

290/464
blocking his way. Pedalling furiously, Alex
spun the bike round and headed for the one
way out of this nightmare. An empty escalat-
or, going down. Before he even knew what he
was doing, he had launched himself onto the
metal treads and was bouncing and shudder-
ing head first
into the ground. He was
thrown from side to side, his body slamming
against the steel panels. He wondered if the
front wheel would crumple with the strain or
if the tyres would puncture against the sharp
edges. But then he had reached the bottom
and he was riding – bizarrely – through a
subway station, with ticket windows on one
side and automatic gates on the other. He
was glad it was so late. The station was al-
most empty. But still a few heads turned in
astonishment as he entered a long passage-
way and disappeared from sight.

It was definitely the wrong time for this,
but even so Alex found himself admiring the
Bad Boy’s handling ability. The aluminium

291/464
frame was light and manageable but the sol-
id down tube kept the bike stable. He came
to a corner and automatically went into at-
tack position. He pressed down on the out-
side pedal and put his weight on it, at the
same time keeping his body low. His entire
centre of gravity was focused on the point
where the tyres came into contact with the
ground, and the bike took the corner with
total control. This was something Alex had
learnt years ago, mountain biking in the Pen-
nines. He had never expected to use the
same techniques in a subway station under
Amsterdam!

A second escalator brought him back up to
street level and Alex found himself on the
other side of the square, away from the sta-
tion. The remains of the hot-dog kiosk were
still burning. A police car had arrived and he
could see the hysterical hot-dog salesman
trying to explain what had happened to an
officer. For a moment he hoped he would be

292/464
able to slip away unnoticed. But then he
heard the screech of tyres as one of the
Smart cars skidded backwards in an arc and
then shot forward in his direction. They had
seen him! And they were after him again.

He began to pedal down the Damrak, one
of the main streets in Amsterdam, quickly
picking up speed. He glanced back. A second
Smart car had joined the first, and with a
sinking heart he knew that his legs would be
no match for their engines. He had perhaps
twenty seconds before they caught up with
him.

Then a bell clanged and there was a loud
metallic clattering. A tram was coming to-
wards him, thundering along the tracks on
its way to the station. Alex knew what he had
to do. He could hear the Smart cars coming
up behind him. The tram was a great metal
box, filling his vision ahead. At the very last
moment, he twisted the handlebars, throw-
ing himself directly in front of the tram. He

293/464
saw the driver’s horrified face, felt the bicycle
wheels shudder as they crossed the tracks.
But then he was on the other side and the
tram had become a wall that would – at least
for a few seconds – separate him from the
Smart cars.

Even so, one of them tried to follow. It was
a terrible mistake. The car was halfway
across the tracks when the tram hit it. There
was a huge crash and the car spun away into
the night. It was followed by a terrible grind-
ing and metallic screaming as the tram de-
railed. The tram’s second carriage whipped
round and hit the other Smart car, batting it
away like a fly. As Alex pedalled away from
the Damrak, across a pretty, white-painted
bridge, he left behind him a scene of total
devastation, the first police sirens cutting
through the air.

He found himself cycling through a series
of narrow streets that were more crowded,
with people drifting
of

in and out

294/464
pornographic cinemas and striptease clubs.
He had accidentally drifted into the famous
red-light
of Amsterdam. He
wondered what Jack would make of that. A
woman standing in a doorway winked at
him. Alex ignored her and rode on.

district

There were three black motorbikes at the

end of the street.

Alex groaned. They were 400cc Suzuki
Bandits and there could only be one reason
why they were there, silent and unmoving.
They were waiting for him. The moment
their riders saw him, they kick-started their
engines. Alex knew he had to get away – and
fast. He looked around.

On one side of him dozens of people were
streaming in and out of a parade of neon-lit
shops. On the other a narrow canal stretched
into the distance, with darkness and possible
safety on the other side. But how was he go-
ing to get across? There wasn’t a bridge in
sight.

295/464
But perhaps there was a way. A boat was
turning. It was one of the famous glass-
topped cruisers, sitting low in the water and
carrying tourists on a late-night dinner
cruise. It had swung diagonally across the
water so that it was almost touching both
banks. The captain had misjudged the angle,
and the boat seemed to be jammed.

Alex propelled himself forward. Simultan-
eously he pressed the green button under the
bicycle bell. There was a water bottle suspen-
ded upside down under his saddle and out of
the corner of his eye he saw a silver-grey li-
quid squirt out onto the road. He was hurt-
ling towards the canal, leaving a snail-like
trail behind him. He heard the roar of the
Suzuki motorbikes and knew that they had
caught up with him. Then everything
happened at once.

Alex left the road, crossed the pavement
and forced the bike up into the air. The first
of the motorbikes reached the section of road

296/464
that was covered with the ooze. At once the
driver lost control, skidding so violently that
he almost seemed to be throwing himself off
on purpose. His bike smashed into a second
bike, bringing that one down too. At the
same time, Alex came hurtling down onto
the reinforced glass roof of the tourist boat
and began to pedal its full length. He could
see diners gazing up at him in astonishment.
A waiter with a tray of glasses spun round,
dropping everything. There was the flash of a
camera. Then he had reached the other side.
Carried by his own momentum, he soared off
the roof, over a line of bollards, and came to
a skidding halt on the opposite bank of the
canal.

He looked back – just in time to see that
the third Bandit had managed to follow him.
It was already in the air and the diners on
the boat were gazing up in alarm as it des-
cended towards them. They were right to be
scared. The motorbike was too heavy. It

297/464
crashed onto the glass roof, which shattered
beneath it. Bike and rider disappeared into
the cabin as the tourists, screaming, threw
themselves out of the way. Plates and tables
exploded; the lights in the cabin fused and
went out. Alex didn’t have time to see more.

He wasn’t going to be able to hide in the
darkness after all. Another pair of Bandits
had found him, roaring up the side of the
canal towards him. Pedalling frantically, he
tried to get out of sight, turning into one
road, cutting down another, around a corner,
across a square. His legs and thighs were on
fire. He knew he couldn’t go on much
further.

And then he made his mistake.
It was an alleyway, dark and inviting. It
would lead him somewhere he wouldn’t be
found. That was what he thought. But he was
only halfway down it when a man suddenly
stepped out
in front of him, holding a

298/464
machine gun. Behind him the two Bandits
edged closer, cutting off the way back.

The man with the machine gun took aim.
Alex’s finger stabbed down, this time finding
the yellow button. At once there was an ex-
plosion of brilliant white light as the mag-
nesium flare concealed inside the Digital
Evolution headlight ignited. Alex couldn’t
believe how much light was pouring out of
the bike. The whole area was illuminated.
The man with the machine gun was com-
pletely blinded.

Alex hit the blue button. There was a loud
hiss. Somewhere under his legs a cloud of
blue smoke poured out of the air pump con-
nected to the bicycle frame. The two Bandits
had been chasing up behind him, and they
now plunged
and
disappeared.

smoke

into

the

Everything was chaotic. Brilliant light and
thick smoke. The man with the machine gun
opened fire, sensing that Alex must be

299/464
somewhere near. But Alex was already
passing him and the bullets went wide, sli-
cing into the first Bandit and killing the
driver instantly. Somehow the second Bandit
managed to get through, but then there was
a thud, a scream and the sound of metal
smashing into brick. The clatter of bullets
stopped and Alex smiled grimly to himself,
realizing what had happened. The man with
the machine gun had just been run over by
his friend on the bike.

His smile faded as yet another Smart car
appeared from nowhere, still some distance
away but already getting closer. How many
of them were there? Surely Cray’s people
would decide they’d had enough and give it a
rest. But then Alex remembered the flash
drive in his pocket and knew that Cray would
rip all Amsterdam apart to get it back.

There was a bridge ahead of him, an old-
fashioned construction of wood and metal
with thick cables and counterweights. It

300/464
crossed a much wider canal and there was a
single barge approaching it. Alex was
puzzled. The bridge was far too low to allow
the barge to pass. Then a red traffic light
blinked on; the bridge began to lift.

Alex glanced back. The Smart car was
about fifty metres behind him and this time
there was nowhere to hide, nowhere else to
go. He looked ahead of him. If he could just
get to the other side of this canal, he really
would be able to disappear. Nobody would
be able to follow – at least not until the
bridge had come down again. But it looked
as if he was already too late. The bridge had
split in half, both sections rising at the same
speed, the gap over the water widening with
every second.

The Smart car was accelerating.
Alex had no choice.
Feeling the pain, and knowing that he had
reached the last reserves of his strength, Alex

301/464
pushed down and the bike picked up speed.
The car’s engine was louder now, howling in
his ears, but he didn’t dare look back again.
All his energy was focused on the rapidly
rising bridge.

He hit the wooden surface when it was at a
forty-five degree slant. Insanely he found
himself
thinking of some long-forgotten
maths lesson at school. A right-angled tri-
angle. He could see it clearly on the board.
And he was cycling up its side!

He wasn’t going to make it. Every time he
pushed down on the pedals it was a little
harder, and he was barely halfway up the
slope. He could see the gap – huge now –
and the dark, cold water below. The car was
right behind him. It was so close he could
hear nothing apart from its engine, and the
smell of petrol filled his nostrils.

He pedalled one last time – and at the
same moment pressed the red button in the
bell:
the ejector seat. There was a soft

302/464
explosion right below him. The saddle had
rocketed off the bike, propelled by com-
pressed air or some sort of ingenious hy-
draulic system. Alex shot into the air, over
his side of the bridge, over the gap and then
down onto the other side, rolling over and
over as he tumbled all the way down. As he
spun round, he saw the Smart car. Incred-
ibly, it had tried to follow him. It was sus-
pended in mid-air between the two halves of
the bridge. He could see the driver’s face, the
open eyes, the gritted teeth. Then the car
plunged down. There was a great splash and
it sank at once beneath the black surface of
the canal.

Alex got painfully to his feet. The saddle
was lying next to him and he picked it up.
There was a message underneath. He
wouldn’t have been able to read it while the
saddle was attached to the frame. If you can
read this, you owe me a new bike.

303/464
Smithers had a warped sense of humour.
Carrying the saddle, Alex began to limp back
to the hotel. He was too tired to smile.

EMERGENCY MEASURES

flats. There were just

The Saskia Hotel was an old building that
had somehow managed to elbow its way
between a converted warehouse and a block
of
five bedrooms,
stacked on top of each other like a house of
cards, each one with a view of the canal. The
flower market was a short walk away and
even at night the air smelt sweet. Jack had
chosen it because it was small and out of the
way. Somewhere, she hoped, where they
wouldn’t be noticed.

When Alex opened his eyes at eight the fol-
lowing morning, he found himself lying on a
bed in a small, irregularly shaped room on
the top floor, built into the roof. He hadn’t
folded the
and sunlight was

shutters

305/464
streaming in through the open window.
Slowly he sat up, his body already complain-
ing about the treatment it had received the
night before. His clothes were neatly folded
on a chair but he couldn’t remember putting
them there. He looked over to the side and
saw a note taped to the mirror.

Breakfast served until ten.

Hope you can make it downstairs! xxx

He smiled, recognizing Jack’s handwriting.

There was a tiny bathroom, hardly bigger
than a cupboard, leading off the main room
and Alex went in and washed. He cleaned his
teeth, thankful for the taste of the pepper-
mint. Even nearly ten hours later he hadn’t
quite forgotten the taste of the snake’s blood.
As he got dressed, he thought back to the
night before when he had finally limped into
the reception area to discover Jack waiting
for him in one of the antique chairs. He

306/464
hadn’t thought he had been too badly hurt
but the look on her face had told him differ-
ently. She had ordered sandwiches and hot
chocolate from the puzzled receptionist, then
led him to the tiny lift that carried them up
five floors. Jack hadn’t asked any questions
and Alex had been grateful. He was too tired
to explain, too tired to do anything.

Jack had made him take a shower, and by
the time he had come out she had somehow
managed to get her hands on a pile of
plasters, bandages and antiseptic cream.
Alex was sure he needed none of them and
he was relieved when they were interrupted
by the arrival of room service. He had
thought he would be too tired to eat, but sud-
denly he found that he was ravenously
hungry and wolfed down the lot while Jack
watched. At last he had stretched out on the
bed.

He was asleep the moment he closed his

eyes.

307/464
Now he finished dressing, checked his
bruises in the mirror, and went out. He took
the creaking lift all the way down to a
vaulted, low-ceilinged cellar underneath the
reception area. This was where breakfast was
served. It was a Dutch breakfast of cold
meats, cheeses and bread rolls, served with
coffee. Alex saw Jack sitting at a table on her
own in a corner. He went over and joined
her.

“Hi, Alex,” she said. She was obviously re-
lieved to see him looking more like his old
self. “How did you sleep?”

“Like a log.” He sat down. “Do you want

me to tell you what happened last night?”

“Not yet. I have a feeling it’ll put me off my

breakfast.”

They ate, and then he told her everything
that had happened from the moment he had
entered Cray’s compound on the side of the
truck. When he finished, there was a long

308/464
silence. Jack’s last cup of coffee had gone
cold.

“Damian Cray is a maniac!” she exclaimed.
“I’ll tell you one thing, Alex, I’m never going
to buy another of his CDs!” She sipped her
coffee, grimaced and put the cup down. “But
I still don’t get it,” she said. “What do you
think he’s doing, for heaven’s sake? I mean …
Cray is a national hero. He sang at Princess
Diana’s wedding!”

“It was her birthday,” Alex corrected her.
“And he’s given zillions to charity. I went
to one of his concerts once. Every penny he
made went to Save the Children. Or maybe I
got the name wrong; maybe it was Beat Up
and Try to Kill the Children! Just what the
hell is going on?”

“I don’t know. The more I think about it,

the less sense it makes.”

“I don’t even want to think about it. I’m
just relieved you managed to get out of there

309/464
alive. And I hate myself for letting you go in
alone.” She thought for a moment. “It seems
to me you’ve done your bit,” she went on.
“Now you have to go back to MI6 and tell
them what you know. You can take them the
flash drive. This time they’ll have to believe
you.”

“I couldn’t agree with you more,” Alex
said. “But first of all we have to get out of
Amsterdam. And we’re going to have to be
careful. Cray is bound to have people at the
station. And at the airport for that matter.”

Jack nodded. “We’ll take a bus,” she said.
“We can go to Rotterdam or Antwerp. Maybe
we can get a plane from there.”

They had finished their breakfast. Now
they packed, paid and left the hotel. Jack
used cash. She was afraid that with all his re-
sources, Cray might be able to track a credit
card. They picked up a taxi at the flower
market and took it out to the suburbs, where
they caught a local bus. Alex realized it was

310/464
going to be a long journey home, and that
worried him. Twelve hours had passed since
he had heard Cray announce that Eagle
Strike would take place in two days’ time. It
was already the middle of the morning.
Less than thirty-six hours remained.

Damian Cray had woken early and was sit-
ting up in a four-poster bed with mauve silk
sheets and at least a dozen pillows. There
was a tray in front of him, brought in by his
personal maid along with the morning news-
papers, specially flown over from England.
He was eating his usual breakfast of organic
porridge, Mexican honey (made by his own
bees), soya milk and cranberries. It was well
known that Cray was a vegetarian. At differ-
ent times he had campaigned against battery
farming, the transportation of live animals
and the importation of goose liver pâté. This
morning he had no appetite but he ate

311/464
anyway. He had a personal dietitian who
never let him forget it when he missed
breakfast.

He was still eating when there was a knock
at the door and Yassen Gregorovich came in-
to the room.

“Well?” Cray demanded. It never bothered
him having people in his bedroom. He had
composed some of his best songs in bed.

“I’ve done what you said. I have men at
Amsterdam Central, Amsterdam Zuid, Lely-
laan, De Vlugtlaan … all the local stations.
There are also men at Schiphol Airport and
I’m covering the ports. But I don’t think Alex
Rider will turn up at any of them.”

“Then where is he?”
“If I were him, I’d head for Brussels or
Paris. I have contacts in the police and I’ve
got them looking out for him. If anybody
sees him, we’ll hear about it. But my guess is
that we won’t find him until he returns to

312/464
England. He’ll go straight to MI6 and the
flash drive will go with him.”

Cray threw down his spoon. “You seem
very unconcerned about it all,” he remarked.

Yassen said nothing.
“I have to say, I’m very disappointed in
you, Mr Gregorovich. When I was setting up
this operation, I was told you were the best. I
was told you never made mistakes.” There
was still no answer. Cray scowled. “I was
paying you a great deal of money. Well, you
can forget that now. It’s finished. It’s all over.
Eagle Strike isn’t going to happen. And what
about me? MI6 are bound to find out about
all this and if they come after me…” His voice
cracked. “This was meant to be my moment
of glory. This was my life’s work. Now it’s
been destroyed, and it’s all thanks to you!”

“It’s not finished,” Yassen said. His voice
hadn’t changed, but there was an icy quality
to it which might have warned Cray that

313/464
once again he had come perilously close to a
sudden and unexpected death. The Russian
looked down at the little man, propped up on
his pillows in the bed. “But we have to take
emergency measures. I have people in Eng-
land. I have given them instructions. You will
have the flash drive returned to you in time.”
“How are you going to manage that?” Cray

asked. He didn’t sound convinced.

“I have been considering the situation. All
along I have believed that Alex has been act-
ing on his own. That it was chance that
brought him to us.”

“He was staying at that house in the South

of France.”

“Yes.”
“So how do you explain it?”
“Ask yourself this question. Why was Alex
so upset by what happened to the journalist?
It was none of his business. But he was
angry. He risked his life coming onto the

314/464
boat, the Fer de Lance. The answer is obvi-
ous. The friend he was staying with was a
girl.”

“A girlfriend?” Cray smiled sarcastically.
“He must obviously have feelings for her.

That is what set him on our trail.”

“And do you think this girl…?” Cray could
see what the Russian was thinking, and sud-
denly the future didn’t seem so bleak after
all. He sank back into the pillows. The break-
fast tray rose and fell in front of him.

“What’s her name?” Cray asked.
“Sabina Pleasure,” Yassen said.

*

*

*

Sabina had always hated hospitals and
everything about the Whitchurch reminded
her why.

315/464
It was huge. You could imagine walking
through the revolving doors and never com-
ing out again. You might die; you might
simply be swallowed up by the system. It
would make no difference. Everything about
the building was impersonal, as if it had been
specially designed to make the patients feel
like factory products. Doctors and nurses
were coming in and out, looking exhausted
and defeated. Even being close to the place
filled Sabina with a sense of dread.

The Whitchurch was a brand-new hospital
in south London. Sabina’s mother had
brought her here. The two of them were in
the car park, sitting together in Liz Pleasure’s
VW Golf.

“Are you sure you don’t want me to come

with you?” her mother was saying.

“No. I’ll be all right.”
“He is the same, Sabina. You have to know
that. He’s been hurt. You may be shocked by

316/464
how he looks. But underneath it all he’s still
the same.”

“Does he want to see me?”
“Of course he does. He’s been looking for-
ward to it. Just don’t stay too long. He gets
tired…”

It was the first time Sabina had visited her
father since he had been airlifted back from
France. He hadn’t been strong enough to see
her until today and, she realized, the same
was true of her. In a way, she had been
dreading this. She had wondered what it
would be like seeing him. He was badly
burnt. He was still unable to walk. But in her
dreams he was the same old dad. She had a
photograph of him beside her bed and every
night, before she went to sleep, she saw him
as he had always been: shaggy and bookish
but always healthy and smiling. She knew
she would have to start facing reality the mo-
ment she walked into his room.

317/464
Sabina took a deep breath. She got out of
the car and walked across the car park, past
Accident and Emergency and into the hospit-
al. The doors revolved and she found herself
sucked into a reception area that was at once
too busy and too brightly lit. Sabina couldn’t
believe how crowded and noisy it was – more
like the inside of a shopping mall than a hos-
pital. There were indeed a couple of shops,
one selling flowers, and next to it a café and
delicatessen where people could buy sand-
wiches and snacks to carry up to the friends
and relatives they were visiting. Signs poin-
ted in every direction. Cardiology. Paediat-
rics. Renal. Radiology. Even the names soun-
ded somehow threatening.

Edward Pleasure was in Lister Ward,
named after a nineteenth-century surgeon.
Sabina knew that it was on the third floor
but, looking around, she could see no sign of
a lift. She was about to ask for directions

318/464
when a man – a young doctor from the look
of him – suddenly stepped into her path.

“Lost?” he asked. He was in his twenties,
dark-haired, wearing a loose-fitting white
coat and carrying a water cup. He looked as
if he had stepped straight out of a television
soap. He was smiling as if at some private
joke and Sabina had to admit that maybe it
was funny, her being lost when she was
totally surrounded by signs.

“I’m looking for Lister Ward,” Sabina said.
“That’s on the third floor. I’m just going up
there myself. But I’m afraid the lifts are out
of order,” the doctor added.

That was strange. Her mother hadn’t men-
tioned it and she had been to the ward only
the evening before. But Sabina imagined that
in a hospital like this, things would break
down all the time.

“There’s a staircase you can take. Why

don’t you come along with me?”

319/464
The doctor crumpled his cup and dropped
it in a bin. He walked through the reception
area and Sabina followed.

“So who are you visiting?” the doctor

asked.

“My dad.”
“What’s wrong with him?”
“He had an accident.”
“That’s too bad. How is he getting on?”
“This is the first time I’ve visited him. He’s

getting better … I think.”

They went through a set of double doors
and down a corridor. Sabina noticed that
they had left all the visitors behind them.
The corridor was long and empty. It brought
them to a hallway where five different pas-
sages converged. To one side was a staircase
leading up, but the doctor ignored it. “Isn’t
that the way?” she asked.

320/464
“No.” The doctor turned and smiled again.
He seemed to smile a lot. “That goes up to
Urology. You can get through to Lister Ward
but this way’s shorter.” He gestured at a door
and opened it. Sabina followed him through.
To her surprise she found herself back out
in the open air. The door led into a partly
covered area round the side of the hospital,
where supply vehicles parked. There was a
raised loading bay and a number of crates
already stacked up. One wall was lined by a
row of dustbins, each one a different colour
according to what sort of refuse it was meant
to take.

“Excuse me,

I

think you’ve—” Sabina

began.

But then her eyes widened in shock. The
doctor was lunging towards her, and before
she knew what was happening he had
grabbed her round the neck. Her first, and
her only, thought was that he was some sort
of madman,
response was

and

her

321/464
automatic. Sabina had been to self-defence
classes; her parents had insisted. Without so
much as hesitating, she whirled round, driv-
ing her knee between the man’s legs. At the
same time, she opened her mouth to scream.
She had been taught that in a situation like
this, noise was the one thing an attacker
most feared.

But he was too fast for her. Even as the
scream rose in her throat, his hand clamped
tight over her mouth. He had seen what she
was about to do and had twisted round be-
hind her, one hand on her mouth, the other
arm pinning her to him. Sabina knew now
that she had assumed too much. The man
had been wearing a white coat. He had been
in the hospital. But of course he could have
been anyone and she had been crazy to go
with him. Never go anywhere with a
stranger. How many times had her parents
told her that?

the man hadn’t

322/464
An ambulance appeared, backing at speed
into the service area. Sabina felt a surge of
hope that gave her new strength. Whatever
her attacker was planning to do, he had
chosen the wrong place. The ambulance had
arrived just in time. But then she realized
that
reacted. She had
thought he would let her go and run away.
On the contrary, he had been expecting the
ambulance and began dragging her towards
it. Sabina stared as the back of the ambu-
lance burst open and two more men jumped
out. This whole thing had been planned! The
three of them were in it together. They had
known she would be there, visiting her fath-
er, and had come to the hospital meaning to
intercept her.

Somehow she managed to bite the hand
that was clamped over her mouth. The fake
doctor swore and let go. Sabina lashed out
with her elbow and felt it crash into the
man’s nose; he reeled backwards and

323/464
suddenly she was free. She tried again to
scream, to raise the alarm, but the two men
from the ambulance were on her. One of
them was holding something silver and poin-
ted but Sabina only knew that it was a hypo-
dermic syringe when she felt it jab into her
arm. She squirmed and kicked, but she felt
the strength rush out of her like water falling
through a trapdoor. Her legs buckled and she
would have fallen if the two men hadn’t
caught hold of her. She wasn’t unconscious.
Her thoughts were clear. She knew that she
was in terrible danger – more danger than
she had ever known – but she had no idea
why this was happening.

Helplessly, Sabina was dragged towards
the ambulance and thrown in. There was a
mattress on the floor and at least that broke
her fall. Then the doors slammed shut and
she heard a lock being turned from the out-
side. She was trapped, on her own in an

324/464
empty metal box, unable to move as the drug
took effect. Sabina felt total despair.

The two men walked off into the hospital
grounds as if nothing had taken place. The
fake doctor removed his white coat and
stuffed it into one of the bins. He was wear-
ing an ordinary suit underneath and he saw
that there was blood on the front of his shirt.
His nose was bleeding, but that was good.
When he went back into the hospital, he
would simply look like one of the patients.

The ambulance drove slowly away. If any-
one had bothered to look, they would have
seen that the driver was dressed in exactly
the same clothes as the other crews. Liz
Pleasure actually noticed it leave, sitting in
her VW in the car park. She was still there
half an hour later, wondering what had
happened to Sabina. But it would be a while
yet before she realized that her daughter had
disappeared.

UNFAIR EXCHANGE

It was five o’clock when Alex arrived at Lon-
don’s City Airport, the end of a long, frustrat-
ing day that had seen him travelling by road
and by air across three countries. He and
Jack had taken the bus from Amsterdam to
Antwerp, arriving just too late for the lunch-
time flight. They had killed three hours at the
airport,
finally boarding an old-fashioned
Fokker 50 that seemed to take for ever cross-
ing over to England. Alex wondered now if
he had wasted too much time avoiding
Damian Cray. A whole day had gone. But at
least the airport was on the right side of Lon-
don, not too far from Liverpool Street and
the offices of MI6.

326/464
Alex intended to take the flash drive
straight to Alan Blunt. He would have tele-
phoned ahead but he couldn’t be sure that
Blunt would even take the call. One thing
was certain. He wouldn’t feel safe until he
had handed over the device. Once MI6 had it
in their hands, he would be able to relax.

That was his plan – but everything
changed as he stepped into the arrivals hall.
There was a woman sitting at a coffee bar
reading the evening newspaper. The front
page was open. It was almost as if it had
been put there for Alex to see. A photograph
of Sabina. And a headline:

SCHOOLGIRL DISAPPEARS FROM HOSPITAL

“This way,” Jack was saying. “We can get a
cab.”

“Jack!”

327/464
Jack saw the look on his face and followed
his eyes to the newspaper. Without saying
another word, she hurried into the airport’s
only shop and bought a copy for herself.

There wasn’t very much to the story – but
at this stage there wasn’t a lot to tell. A
fifteen-year-old schoolgirl from south Lon-
don had been visiting her father at Whitch-
urch Hospital that morning. He had recently
been injured in a terrorist incident in the
South of France. Inexplicably she had never
reached the ward, but instead had vanished
into thin air. The police were urging any wit-
nesses to come forward. Her mother had
already made a television appeal for Sabina
to come home.

“It’s Cray,” Alex said. His voice was empty.

“He’s got her.”

“Oh God, Alex.” Jack sounded as wretched
as he felt. “He’s done this to get the flash
drive. We should have thought…”

328/464
“There was no way we could have expected
this. How did he even know she was my
friend?” Alex
a moment.
“Yassen.” He answered his own question.
“He must have told Cray.”

thought

for

“You have to go to MI6 straight away. It’s

the only thing you can do.”

“No. I want to go home first.”
“Alex – why?”
Alex looked down at the picture one last
time, then crumpled the page in his hands.
“Cray may have left a message for me,” he
said.

There was a message. But it came in a form
that Alex hadn’t quite expected.

Jack had gone into the house first, check-
ing to make sure there was no one waiting
for them. Then she called Alex. She looked
grim as she stood at the front door.

329/464

“It’s in the sitting room,” she said.
“It” was a brand-new widescreen televi-
sion. Someone had been into the house. They
had brought the television and left it in the
middle of the room. There was a webcam
perched on top; a brand-new red cable
snaked into a junction box in the wall.

“A present from Cray,” Jack murmured.
“I don’t think it’s a present,” Alex said.
There was a remote control next to the
webcam. Reluctantly Alex picked it up. He
knew he wasn’t going to like what he was
about to see, but there was no way he could
ignore it. He turned the television on.

The screen flickered and cleared and sud-
denly he found himself face to face with
Damian Cray. Somehow he wasn’t surprised.
He wondered if Cray had returned to Eng-
land or if he was transmitting from Amster-
dam. He knew that this was a live image and
that his own picture would be sent back via

330/464
the webcam. Slowly he sat down in front of
the screen. He showed no emotion at all.

“Alex!” Cray looked relaxed and cheerful.
His voice was so clear he could have been in
the room with them. “I’m so glad you got
back safely. I’ve been waiting to speak to
you.”

“Where’s Sabina?” Alex asked.
“Where’s Sabina? Where’s Sabina? How

very sweet! Young love!”

The image changed. Alex heard Jack gasp.
Sabina was lying on a bunk in a bare room.
Her hair was dishevelled but otherwise she
seemed unhurt. She looked up at the camera
and Alex could see the fear and confusion in
her eyes.

Then the picture switched back to Cray.
“We haven’t damaged her … yet,” he said.
“But that could change at any time.”

“I’m not giving you the flash drive,” Alex

said.

331/464
“Hear me out, Alex.” Cray leant forward so
that he seemed to come closer to the screen.
“Young people these days are so hot-headed!
I’ve gone to a great deal of trouble and ex-
pense on account of you. And the thing is,
you are going to give me the flash drive be-
cause if you don’t your girlfriend is going to
die, and you are going to see it on video.”

“Don’t

listen

to

him, Alex!”

Jack

exclaimed.

“He is listening to me and I’d ask you not
to interrupt!” Cray smiled. He seemed totally
confident, as if this were nothing more than
another celebrity interview. “I can imagine
what’s going through your mind,” he went
on, speaking again to Alex. “You’re thinking
of going to your friends at MI6. I would seri-
ously advise against it.”

“How do you know we haven’t been to

them already?” Jack asked.

332/464
“I very much hope you haven’t,” Cray
replied. “Because I am a very nervous man. If
I think anyone is making enquiries about me,
I will kill the girl. If I find myself being
watched by people I don’t know, I will kill
the girl. If a policeman so much as glances at
me in the street, I may well kill the girl. And
this I promise you. If you do not bring me
the flash drive, personally, before ten o’clock
tomorrow morning, I will certainly kill the
girl.”

“No!” Alex was defiant.
“You can lie to me, Alex, but you can’t lie
to yourself. You don’t work for MI6. They
mean nothing to you. But the girl does. If you
abandon her, you’ll regret it for the rest of
your life. And it won’t end with her. I will
hunt down the rest of your friends. Don’t un-
derestimate my power!
I will destroy
everything and everyone you know. And then
I will come after you. So don’t kid yourself.
Get it over with now. Give me what I want.”

333/464

There was a long silence.
“Where can I find you?” Alex asked. The
words tasted sour in his mouth. They tasted
of defeat.

“I am at my house in Wiltshire. You can
get a taxi from Bath station. All the drivers
know where I live.”

“If I bring it to you…” Alex found himself
struggling to find the right words. “How do I
know that you’ll let her go? How do I know
you’ll let either of us go?”

“Exactly!” Jack had chipped in again.

“How do we know we can trust you?”

“I’m a knight of the realm!” Cray ex-
claimed. “The Queen trusts me; you can too!”

The screen went blank.
Alex turned to Jack. For once he was help-

less. “What do I do?” he asked.

“Ignore him, Alex. Go to MI6.”

334/464
“I can’t, Jack. You heard what he said. Be-
fore ten o’clock tomorrow morning. MI6
won’t be able to do anything before then, and
if they try something, Cray will kill Sab.” He
rested his head in his hands. “I couldn’t al-
low that to happen. She’s only in this mess
because of me. I couldn’t live with myself
afterwards.”

“But, Alex… A lot more people could get
hurt if Eagle Strike – whatever it is – goes
ahead.”

“We don’t know that.”
“You think Cray would do all this if he was

just going to rob a bank or something?”

Alex said nothing.
“Cray is a killer, Alex. I’m sorry. I wish I
could be more helpful. But I don’t think you
can just walk into his house.”

Alex thought about it. He thought for a
long time. As long as Cray had Sabina, he
held all the cards. But perhaps there was a

335/464
way he could get her out of there. It would
mean giving himself up. Once again he
would become Cray’s prisoner. But with Sa-
bina free, Jack would be able to contact MI6.
And perhaps – just perhaps – Alex might
come out of this alive.

Quickly he outlined his idea to Jack. She
listened – but the more she heard, the un-
happier she looked.

“It’s terribly dangerous, Alex,” she said.
“But it might work.”
“You can’t give him the flash drive.”
“I won’t give him the flash drive, Jack.”
“And if it all goes wrong?”
Alex shrugged. “Then Cray wins. Eagle
Strike happens.” He tried to smile, but there
was no humour in his voice. “But at least
we’ll finally find out what it is.”

*

*

*

336/464
The house was on the edge of the Bath valley,
a twenty-minute drive from the station. Cray
had been right about one thing. The taxi
driver knew where it was without needing a
map or an address – and as the car rolled
down the private lane towards the main en-
trance, Alex understood why.

Damian Cray lived in an Italian convent.
According to the newspapers, he had seen it
in Umbria, fallen in love with it and shipped
it over, brick by brick. The building really
was extraordinary. It seemed to have taken
over much of the surrounding countryside,
cut off from public view by a tall, honey-col-
oured brick wall with two carved wooden
gates at least ten metres high. Beyond the
wall Alex could see a slanting roof of terra-
cotta tiles, and beyond it an elaborate tower
with pillars, arched windows and miniature
battlements. Much of the garden had been
imported from Italy too, with dark green,
twisting cypresses and olive trees. Even the

337/464
weather didn’t seem quite English. The sun
had come out and the sky was a radiant blue.
It had to be the hottest day of the year.

Alex paid the driver and got out. He was
wearing a pale grey, short-sleeved Trailrider
cycling jersey without the elbow pads. As he
walked down to the gates, he loosened the
zip that ran up to the neck, allowing the
breeze to play against his skin. There was a
rope coming out of a hole in the wall and he
pulled it. A bell rang out. Alex reflected that
once this same bell might have called the
nuns from their prayers. It seemed somehow
wicked that a holy place should have been
uprooted and brought here to be a madman’s
lair.

The gates opened electronically. Alex
walked through and found himself
in a
cloister: a rectangle of perfectly mown grass
surrounded by statues of saints. Ahead there
was a fourteenth-century chapel with a villa
attached,
the two somehow existing in

338/464
perfect harmony. He smelt lemons in the air.
Pop music drifted from somewhere in the
house. Alex recognized the song. White
Lines: Cray was playing his own CD.

The front door of the house stood open.
There was still nobody in sight, so Alex
walked inside. The door led directly into a
wide airy space with beautiful furniture ar-
ranged over a quarry-tiled floor. There was a
grand piano made of rosewood, and a num-
ber of paintings, medieval altar pieces, were
hanging on plain white walls. A row of six
windows looked out onto a terrace with a
garden beyond. White muslin curtains,
hanging ceiling to floor, swayed gently in the
breeze.

Damian Cray was sitting on an ornately
carved wooden seat with a white poodle
curled up in his lap. He glanced up as Alex
came into the room. “Ah, there you are,
Alex.” He stroked the dog. “This is Bubbles.
Isn’t he beautiful?”

339/464

“Where’s Sabina?” Alex asked.
Cray scowled. “I’m not going to be dictated
to, if you don’t mind,” he said. “Especially
not in my own home.”

“Where is she?”
“All right!” The moment of anger had
passed. Cray stood up and the dog jumped
off his lap and ran out of the room. He
crossed over to the desk and pressed a but-
ton. A few seconds later a door opened and
Yassen Gregorovich came in. Sabina was
with him. Her eyes widened when she saw
Alex but she was unable to speak. Her hands
were tied and there was a piece of tape across
her mouth. Yassen forced her into a chair
and stood over her. His eyes avoided Alex.

“You see, Alex, here she is,” Cray said. “A
little scared, perhaps, but otherwise unhurt.”
“Why have you tied her up?” Alex deman-

ded. “Why won’t you let her talk?”

340/464
“Because she said some very hurtful things
to me,” Cray replied. “She also tried to as-
sault me. In fact, frankly she has behaved in
a very unladylike way.” He scowled. “Now –
you have something for me.”
This was the moment

that Alex had
dreaded. He had a plan. Sitting on the train
from London to Bath, in the taxi, and even
walking into the house, he had been certain
it would work. Now, facing Damian Cray, he
suddenly wasn’t so sure.

He reached into his pocket and took out
the flash drive. The silver capsule had a lid,
which Alex had opened, revealing a maze of
circuitry inside. He had taped a brightly col-
oured tube in place, the nozzle pointing into
the device. He held it up so that Cray could
see.

“What is that?” Cray demanded.
“It’s superglue,” Alex replied. “I don’t
know what’s inside your precious flash drive,

341/464
but I doubt it’ll work if it’s gummed up with
this stuff. I just have to squeeze my hand and
you can forget Eagle Strike. You can forget
the whole thing.”

“How very ingenious!” Cray giggled. “But I

don’t actually see the point.”

“It’s simple,” Alex said. “You let Sabina go;
she walks out of here. She goes to a pub or a
house and she telephones me here. You can
give her the number. Once I know she’s safe,
I’ll give you the flash drive.”

Alex was lying.
As soon as Sabina had gone, he would
squeeze the tube anyway. The flash drive
would be filled with superglue, which would
harden almost immediately. Alex was fairly
sure it would make the device inoperable. He
had no qualms about double-crossing Cray.
It had been his plan all along. He didn’t like
to think what would happen to him, but that
didn’t matter. Sabina would be free. And as

342/464
soon as Jack knew she was safe, she would
be able to act. Jack would call MI6. Some-
how Alex would have to stay alive until they
arrived.

“Was this your idea?” Cray asked. Alex
said nothing so he went on. “It’s very clever.
Very cute. But the question is…” He raised a
finger on each hand. “Will it work?”

“I mean what I say.” Alex held out the

flash drive. “Let her go.”

“But what

if she goes straight

to the

police?”

“She won’t.”
Sabina tried to shout her disagreement

from behind the gag. Alex took a breath.

“You’ll still have me,” he explained. “If Sa-
bina goes to the police, you can do whatever
you want to me. So that’ll stop her. Anyway,
she doesn’t know what you’re planning.
There’s nothing she can do.”

343/464

Cray shook his head. “I’m sorry,” he said.
“What?”
“No deal!”
“Are you serious?” Alex closed his hand

around the tube.

“Entirely.”
“What about Eagle Strike?”
“What about your girlfriend?” There was a
heavy pair of kitchen scissors on the desk.
Before Alex could say anything, Cray picked
them up and threw them to Yassen. Sabina
began to struggle furiously, but the Russian
held her down. “You’ve made a simple mis-
calculation, Alex,” Cray continued. “You’re
very brave. You would do almost anything to
have the girl released. But I will do anything
to keep her. And I wonder how much you’ll
be prepared to watch, how far I’ll have to go,
before you decide that you might as well give
me the flash drive anyway. A finger, maybe?
Two fingers?”

344/464
Yassen opened the scissors. Sabina had
suddenly gone very quiet and still. Her eyes
pleaded with Alex.

“No!” Alex yelled. With a wave of despair
he knew that Cray had won. He had gambled
on at least getting Sabina out of here. But it
wasn’t to be.

Cray saw the defeat in his eyes. “Give it to

me!” he demanded.

“No.”
“Start with the little finger, Yassen. Then
we’ll work one at a time towards her thumb.”
eyes. She

formed in Sabina’s

Tears

couldn’t hide her terror.

Alex felt sick. Sweat trickled down the
sides of his body under his shirt. There was
nothing more he could do. He wished now
that he had listened to Jack. He wished he
had never come.

He threw the flash drive onto the desk.

345/464

Cray picked it up.
“Well, that’s got that sorted,” he said with
a smile. “Now, why don’t we forget all this
unpleasantness and go and have a cup of
tea?”

INSANITY AND BISCUITS

Tea was served outside on the lawn – but it
was a lawn the size of a field in a garden like
nothing Alex had ever seen before. Cray had
built himself a fantasy land in the English
countryside, with dozens of pools, fountains,
miniature temples and grottoes. There was a
rose garden and a statue garden, a garden
filled entirely with white flowers, and anoth-
er given over to herbs, which had been laid
out like sections in a clock. And all around
him he had constructed replicas of buildings
that Alex recognized. The Eiffel Tower, the
Colosseum in Rome, the Taj Mahal, the
Tower of London: each one was exactly one
hundredth the scale of the original and all of
them were jumbled together like picture
postcards scattered on the floor. It was the

347/464
garden of a man who wanted to rule the
world but couldn’t, and so had cut the world
down to his own size.

“What do you think of it?” Cray asked as

he joined Alex at the table.

“Some gardens have crazy paving,” Alex
replied quietly, “but I’ve never seen anything
as crazy as this.”

Cray smiled.
There were five of them sitting on the
raised terrace outside the house: Cray, Alex,
Yassen, the man called Henryk and Sabina.
She had been untied and the gag taken off
her mouth – and as soon as she had been
freed, she had rushed over to Alex and
thrown her arms around his neck.

“I’m so sorry,” she had whispered. “I

should have believed you.”

That was all she had said. Apart from that
she had been silent, her face pale. Alex knew

348/464
that she was afraid. It was typical of Sabina
not to want to show it.

“Well, here we all are. One happy family,”
Cray said. He pointed at the man with the
silver hair and the pock-marked face. Now
that he was closer to him, Alex could see that
he was very ugly indeed. His eyes, magnified
by the glasses, were slightly inflamed. He
wore a denim shirt that was too tight and
showed off his paunch.

“I don’t think you’ve met Henryk,” Cray

added.

“I don’t think I want to,” Alex said.
“You mustn’t be a bad loser, Alex. Henryk

is very valuable to me. He flies jumbo jets.”
Jumbo jets. Another piece of the puzzle.
“So where is he flying you?” Alex asked. “I

hope it’s somewhere far away.”

Cray smiled to himself. “We’ll come to that
in a moment. In the meantime, shall I be

349/464
mother? It’s Earl Grey; I hope you don’t
mind. And do help yourself to a biscuit.”

Cray poured five cups and set the pot
down. Yassen hadn’t spoken yet. Alex got the
feeling that the Russian was uncomfortable
being here. And that was another strange
thing. He had always considered Yassen to
be his worst enemy, but sitting here now he
seemed almost irrelevant. This was all about
Damian Cray.

“We have an hour before we have to
leave,” Cray said. “So I thought I might tell
you a little about myself. I thought it might
pass the time.”

“I’m not really all that interested,” Alex

said.

Cray’s smile grew a little thinner. “I can’t
believe that’s true. You seem to have been in-
teresting yourself in me for a considerable
time.”

“You tried to kill my father,” Sabina said.

350/464
Cray turned round, surprised to hear her

voice.

“Yes, that’s right,” he admitted. “And if
you’ll just shut up, I’m about to tell you
why.”
He

paused. A pair

of

butterflies

shimmered around a bed of lavender.

“I have had an extremely interesting and
privileged life,” Cray began. “My parents
were rich. Super rich, you might say. But not
super. My father was a businessman and he
was frankly rather boring. My mother didn’t
do anything very much; I didn’t much like
her either. I was an only child and naturally I
was fabulously spoilt. I sometimes think that
I was richer when I was eight years old than
most people will be in their lifetime!”

“Do we have to listen to this?” Alex asked.
“If you interrupt me again, I’ll ask Yassen
to get the scissors,” Cray replied. He went on.
“I had my first serious row with my parents

351/464
when I was thirteen. You see, they’d sent me
to the Royal Academy in London. I was an
extremely talented singer. But the trouble
was, I hated it there. Bach and Beethoven
and Mozart and Verdi. I was a teenager, for
heaven’s sake! I wanted to be Elvis Presley; I
wanted to be in a pop group; I wanted to be
famous!

“My father got very upset when I told him.
He turned up his nose at anything popular.
He really thought I’d failed him, and I’m
afraid my mother agreed. They both had this
idea that one day I’d be singing opera at
Covent Garden or something ghastly like
that. They didn’t want me to leave. In fact,
they wouldn’t let me – and I don’t know
what would have happened if they hadn’t
had that extraordinary accident with the car.
It fell on them, you know. I can’t say I was
terribly upset, although of course I had to
pretend. But you know what I thought? I
thought that God must be on my side. He

352/464
wanted me to be a success and so He had de-
cided to help me.”

Alex glanced at Sabina to see how she was
taking this. She was sitting rigidly in her
chair, her cup of tea ignored. There was ab-
solutely no colour in her face. But she was
still in control. She wasn’t giving anything
away.

“Anyway,” Cray continued, “the best thing
was that my parents were out of the way and,
even better, I had inherited all their money.
When I was twenty-one, I bought myself a
flat in London – actually it was more of a
penthouse – and I set up my own band. We
called ourselves Slam! As I’m sure you know,
the rest is history. Five years later I went
solo, and soon I was the greatest singer in
the world. And that was when I started to
think about the world I was in.

“I wanted to help people. All my life I’ve
wanted to help people. The way you’re look-
ing at me, Alex, you’d think I’m some kind of

353/464
monster. But I’m not. I’ve raised millions of
pounds for charity. Millions and millions.
And I should remind you, in case you’ve for-
gotten, that I have been knighted by the
Queen. I am actually Sir Damian Cray, al-
though I don’t use the title because I’m no
snob. A lovely lady, by the way, the Queen.
Do you know how much money my Christ-
mas single,
‘Something for the Children’,
raised all on its own? Enough to feed a whole
country!

“But the trouble is, sometimes being fam-
ous and being rich isn’t enough. I so wanted
to make a difference – but what was I to do
when people wouldn’t listen? I mean, take
the case of the Milburn Institute in Bristol.
This was a laboratory working for a number
of cosmetics companies, and I discovered
that they were testing many of their products
on animals. Now, I’m sure you and I would
be on the same side about this, Alex. I tried
to stop them. I campaigned for over a year.

354/464
We had a petition with twenty thousand sig-
natures and still they wouldn’t listen. So in
the end – I’d met people and of course I had
plenty of money – I suddenly realized that
the best thing to do would be to have Pro-
fessor Milburn killed. And that’s what I did.
And six months later the institute closed
down and that was that. No more animals
harmed.”

Cray rotated a hand over the biscuit plate
and picked one out. He was obviously
pleased with himself.

some

“I had quite a lot of people killed in the
years that followed,” he said. “For example,
there were
extremely unpleasant
people cutting down the rainforest in Brazil.
They’re still in the rainforest … six feet un-
derneath it. Then there was a whole boatload
of Japanese fishermen who wouldn’t listen to
me. I had them deep-frozen in their own
freezer. That will teach them not to hunt rare
whales! And there was a company in

355/464
Yorkshire that was selling landmines.
I
didn’t like them at all. So I arranged for the
entire board of directors to disappear on an
Outward Bound course in the Lake District
and that put a stop to that!

“I’ve had to do some terrible things in my
time. Really, I have.” He turned to Sabina. “I
did hate having to blow up your father. If he
hadn’t spied on me, it wouldn’t have been
necessary. But you must see that I couldn’t
let him spoil my plans.”

Every cell in Sabina’s body had gone rigid
and Alex knew she was having to force her-
self not to attack Cray. But Yassen was sitting
right next to her and she wouldn’t have got
anywhere near.

Cray went on. “This is a terrible world, and
if you want to make a difference, sometimes
you have to be a bit extreme. And that’s the
point. I am extremely proud of the fact that I
have helped so many people and so many

356/464
different causes. Because helping people –
charity – has been the work of my life.”

He paused long enough to eat the biscuit

he had chosen.

Alex forced himself to drink a little of the
perfumed tea. He hated the taste but his
mouth was completely dry. “I have a couple
of questions,” he said.

“Do, please, go ahead.”
“My first one is for Yassen Gregorovich.”
He turned to the Russian. “Why are you
working for this lunatic?” Alex wondered if
Cray would hit him. But it would be worth it.
All
the Russian
didn’t share Cray’s world view. He seemed
uncomfortable, out of place. It might be
worth trying to sow a few seeds of discord
between them.

the signs indicated that

Cray scowled, but did nothing. He sig-

nalled to Yassen to answer.

“He pays me,” Yassen said simply.

357/464
“I hope your second question is more in-

teresting,” Cray snarled.

“Yes. You’re

trying to tell me

that
everything you’ve done is for a good cause.
You think that all this killing is worth it be-
cause of the results. I’m not sure I agree.
Lots of people work for charity; lots of people
want to change the world. But they don’t
have to behave like you.”

“I’m waiting…” Cray snapped.
“All right. This is my question. What is
Eagle Strike? Are you really telling me it’s a
plan to make the world a better place?”

Cray laughed softly. For a moment he
looked like the diabolical schoolboy he had
once been, welcoming his own parents’
death. “Yes,” he said. “That’s exactly what it
is. Sometimes great people are misunder-
stood. You don’t understand me and neither
does your girlfriend. But I really do want to
change the world. That’s all I’ve ever wanted.

358/464
And I’ve been very fortunate because my mu-
sic has made it possible. In the twenty-first
century, entertainers are much more influen-
tial than politicians or statesmen. I’m the
only one who’s actually noticed it.”

Cray chose a second biscuit – a custard

cream.

“Let me ask you a question, Alex. What do
you think is the greatest evil on this planet
today?”

“Is that including or not including you?”

Alex asked.

Cray frowned. “Please don’t irritate me,”

he warned.

“I don’t know,” Alex said. “You tell me.”
“Drugs!” Cray spat out the single word as if
it were obvious. “Drugs are causing more un-
happiness and destruction than anything
anywhere in the world. Drugs kill more
people than war or terrorism. Did you know
that drugs are the single biggest cause of

359/464
crime in western society? We’ve got kids out
on the street taking heroin and cocaine, and
they’re stealing to support their habits. But
they’re not criminals; they’re victims. It’s the
drugs that are to blame.”

“We’ve talked about this at school,” Alex
said. The last thing he needed right now was
a lecture.

“All my life I’ve been fighting drugs,” Cray
went on. “I’ve done advertisements for the
government. I’ve spent millions building
treatment centres. And I’ve written songs.
You must have listened to White Lines…”

He closed his eyes and hummed softly,

then sang:

“The poison’s there. The poison flows
It’s everywhere – in heaven’s name
Why is it that no one knows
How to end this deadly game?”
He stopped.

360/464
“But I know how to end it,” he said simply.
“I’ve worked it out. And that’s what Eagle
Strike is all about. A world without drugs.
Isn’t that something to dream about, Alex?
Isn’t that worth a few sacrifices? Think about
it! The end of the drug problem. And I can
make it happen.”

“How?” Alex was almost afraid of the

answer.

“It’s easy. Governments won’t do anything.
The police won’t do anything. No one can
stop the dealers. So you have to go back to
the supplies. You have to think where these
drugs come from. And where is that? I’ll tell
you…

“Every year, hundreds and hundreds of
tons of heroin come from Afghanistan – in
particular the provinces of Nangarhar and
Helmand. Did you know production has in-
creased by fourteen hundred per cent since
the Taliban were defeated? So much for that
particular war! Then, after Afghanistan,

361/464
there’s Burma and the golden triangle, with
about one hundred thousand hectares of
land used to produce opium and heroin. The
government of Burma doesn’t care. Nobody
cares. And let’s not forget Pakistan, manu-
facturing one hundred and fifty-five metric
tons of opium a year, with refineries
throughout the Khyber region and along the
borders.

“On the other side of the world there’s Co-
lombia. It’s the leading supplier and distrib-
utor of cocaine, but it also supplies heroin
and marijuana. It’s a business worth three
billion dollars a year, Alex. Eighty tons of co-
caine every twelve months. Seven tons of
heroin. A lot of it ends up on the streets of
American cities. In high schools. A tidal wave
of misery and crime.

“But that’s only a small part of the pic-
ture.” Cray held up a hand and began to tick
off other countries on his fingers. “There are
refineries
in

in Albania. Mule

trains

362/464
Thailand. Coca crops in Peru. Opium planta-
tions in Egypt. Ephedrine, the chemical used
in heroin production, is manufactured in Ch-
ina. One of the biggest drugs markets in the
world can be
in
Uzbekistan.

found in Tashkent,

“These are the principal sources of the
world’s drug problem. This is where the
trouble all starts. These are my targets.”

“Targets…” Alex whispered the single

word.

Damian Cray reached into his pocket and
took out the flash drive. Yassen was suddenly
alert. Alex knew he had a gun and would use
it if he so much as moved.

“Although you weren’t to know it,” Cray
explained, “this is actually a key to unlock
one of the most complicated security systems
ever devised. The original key was created by
the National Security Agency and it is carried
by the president of the United States. My

363/464
friend, the late Charlie Roper, was a senior
officer with the NSA, and it was his expert-
ise, his knowledge of the codes, that allowed
me to manufacture a duplicate. Even so, it
has taken enormous effort. You have no idea
how much computer processing power was
required to create a second key.”
“The Gameslayer…” Alex said.
“Yes. It was the perfect cover. So many
people; so much technology. A plant with all
the processing power I could ask for. And in
reality it was all for this!”

He held up the little metal capsule.
“This key will give me access to two and a
half thousand nuclear missiles. These are
American missiles and they are on hair-trig-
ger alert – meaning that
they can be
launched at a moment’s notice. It is my in-
tention to override the NSA’s system and to
fire twenty-five of those missiles at targets I
have carefully chosen around the globe.”

364/464

Cray smiled sadly.
“It is almost impossible to imagine the
devastation that will be caused by twenty-
five one-hundred-ton missiles exploding at
the same time. South America, Central
America, Asia, Africa … almost every contin-
ent will feel the pain. And there will be pain,
Alex. I am well aware of that.

“But I will have wiped out the poppy fields.
The farms and the factories. The refineries,
the trade routes, the markets. There will be
no more drug suppliers because there will be
no more drug supplies. Of course, millions
will die. But millions more will be saved.

“That is what Eagle Strike is all about,
Alex. The start of a new golden age. A day
when all humanity will come together and
rejoice.

“That day is now. My time has finally

arrived.”

EAGLE STRIKE

Alex and Sabina were taken to a room
somewhere in the basement of the house and
thrown inside. The door closed and suddenly
they were alone.

Alex signalled to Sabina not to speak, then
began a quick search. The door was a slab of
solid oak, locked from the outside and prob-
ably bolted too. There was a single square
window set high up in the wall, but it was
barred and wouldn’t have been big enough to
crawl through anyway. There was no view.
The room might once have been used to
store wine; the walls were bare and undecor-
ated, the floor concrete, and apart from a few
shelves there was no furniture. A naked bulb
hung on a wire from the ceiling. Alex was

366/464
looking for hidden bugs. It was unlikely that
Cray would want to eavesdrop on the two of
them, but even so he wanted to be sure that
they couldn’t be overheard.

It was only when Alex had gone over every
inch of the room that he turned to Sabina.
She seemed amazingly calm. He thought
about all the things that had happened to
her. She had been kidnapped and kept pris-
oner – bound and gagged. She had been
brought face to face with the man who had
ordered the execution of her father, and had
listened as he outlined his mad idea to des-
troy half the world. And here she was locked
up again with the near certainty that she and
Alex wouldn’t be allowed to leave here alive.
Sabina should have been terrified. But she
simply waited quietly while Alex completed
his checks, watching him as if seeing him for
the first time.

“Are you OK?” he asked at last.

367/464
“Alex…” It was only when she tried to
speak that the emotion came. She took a
breath and fought for control. “I don’t be-
lieve this is happening,” she said.

“I know. I wish it wasn’t.” Alex didn’t know
what to say. “When did they get you?” he
asked.
“At
them.”

the hospital. There were three of

“Did they hurt you?”
“They scared me. And they gave me some
sort of injection.” She scowled. “God – Dami-
an Cray is such a creep! And I never realized
he was so – small!”

That made Alex smile despite everything.

Sabina hadn’t changed.

But she was serious. “As soon as I saw
him, I thought of you. I knew you’d been
telling the truth all along and I felt so rotten
for not believing you.” She stopped. “You
really are what you said. A spy!”

368/464

“Not exactly…”
“Do MI6 know you’re here?”
“No.”
“But you must have some sort of gadgets.
You told me they gave you gadgets. Haven’t
you got exploding shoelaces or something to
get us out of here?”

“I haven’t got anything. MI6 don’t even
know I’m here. After what happened at the
bank – in Liverpool Street – I sort of went
after Cray on my own. I was just so angry
about the way they tricked you and lied
about me. I was stupid. I mean, I had the
flash drive in my hand … and I gave it back
to Cray!”

Sabina understood. “You came here to res-

cue me,” she said.
“Some rescue!”
“After the way I treated you, you should

have just dumped me.”

369/464
“I don’t know, Sab. I thought I had it all
worked out. I thought they’d let you go and
everything would turn out all right. I had no
idea…” Alex kicked out at the door. It was as
solid as a rock. “We have to stop him,” he
said. “We have to do something.”

“Maybe he was making it up,” Sabina sug-
gested. “Think about it. He said he was going
to fire twenty-five missiles all around the
world. American missiles. But they’re all
controlled from the White House. Only the
American president can set them off. Every-
one knows that. So what’s he going to do? Fly
to Washington and try to break in?”

“I wish you were right.” Alex shook his
head. “But Cray’s got a huge organization.
He’s put years of planning and millions of
pounds
Yassen
Gregorovich working for him. He must know
something we don’t.”

this. He’s

into

got

He went over to her. He wanted to put an
arm round her but he ended up standing

370/464
awkwardly in front of her instead. “Listen,”
he said. “This is going to sound really big-
headed and you know I’d never normally tell
you what to do. But the thing is, I have sort
of been here before…”

“What? Locked up by a maniac who wants

to destroy the world?”

“Well, yes. Actually I have.” He sighed.
“My uncle was trying to turn me into a spy
when I was still in short trousers. I never
even realized it. And it’s true what I told you.
They made me train with the SAS. Anyway,
the truth is … I know things. And it may be
that we do get a chance to get back at Cray.
But
that happens, you have to leave
everything to me. You have to do what I say.
Without arguing…”

if

“Forget it!” Sabina shook her head. “I’ll do
what you say. But it was my dad he tried to
kill. And I can tell you, if Cray leaves a kit-
chen knife lying around, I’m going to shove it
somewhere painful…”

371/464
“It may already be too late,” Alex said
gloomily. “Cray may just leave us here. He
could have already left.”

“I don’t think so. I think he needs you; I
don’t know why. Maybe it’s because you
came closest to beating him.”

“I’m glad you’re here,” Alex said.
Sabina looked at him. “I’m not.”
Ten minutes later the door opened and
Yassen Gregorovich appeared carrying two
sets of what looked like white overalls with
red markings – serial numbers – on the
sleeves. “You are to put these on,” he said.

“Why?” Alex asked.
“Cray wants you. You’re coming with us.

Do as you’re told.”

But Alex still hesitated. “What is this?” he
demanded. There was something disturb-
ingly familiar about what he was being asked
to wear.

“It

372/464
is a polyamide fabric,” Yassen ex-
plained. The words meant nothing to Alex.
“It is used in biochemical warfare,” he added.
“Now put it on.”

With a growing sense of dread, Alex put
the suit on over his own clothes. Sabina did
the same. The overalls covered them com-
pletely, with hoods that would go over their
heads. Alex realized that when they were
fully suited up,
they would be virtually
shapeless. It would be impossible to tell that
they were teenagers.

“Now come with me,” Yassen said.
They were led back through the house and
out into the cloister. There were now three
vehicles parked on the grass: a jeep and two
covered trucks, both painted white with the
same red markings as the suits. There were
about twenty men, all in biochemical suits.
Henryk, the Dutch pilot, was in the back of
the jeep, nervously polishing his glasses.
Damian Cray stood next to him talking, but

373/464
seeing Alex he stopped and came over. He
was bristling with excitement, walking
jauntily, his eyes even brighter than normal.
“So you’re here!” he exclaimed, as if wel-
coming Alex to a party. “Excellent! I’ve de-
cided I want you to come along. Mr
Gregorovich tried to talk me out of it, but
that’s the thing about Russians. No sense of
humour. But you see, Alex, none of this
would have happened without you. You
brought me the flash drive; it’s only fair you
should see how I use it.”

“I’d rather see you arrested and sent to

Broad-moor,” Alex said.

Cray simply laughed. “That’s what I like
about you!” he exclaimed. “You’re so rude.
But I do have to warn you, Yassen will be
watching you like a hawk. Or maybe I should
say like an eagle. If you do anything at all, if
you so much as blink without permission,
he’ll shoot your girlfriend first. And then
he’ll shoot you. Do you understand?”

374/464

“Where are we going?” Alex asked.
“We’re taking the motorway into London.
It’ll take us just a couple of hours. You and
Sabina will be in the first truck with Yassen.
Eagle Strike has begun, by
the way.
Everything is in place. I think you’ll enjoy it.”
He turned his back on them and went over
to the jeep. A few minutes later the convoy
left, rolling out of the gates and back up the
lane to the main road. Alex and Sabina sat
next to each other on a narrow wooden
bench. There were six men with them, all
armed with automatic rifles, slung over the
white suits. Alex thought he recognized one
of the faces from the compound outside Am-
sterdam. Certainly he knew the type. Pale
skin, dead-looking hair, dark, empty eyes.
Yassen sat opposite them. He too had put on
a biochemical suit. He seemed to be staring
at Alex, but he said nothing and his face was
unreadable.

375/464
They travelled for two hours, taking the
M4 towards London. Alex glanced occasion-
ally at Sabina and she caught his eye once
and smiled nervously. This wasn’t her world.
The men, the machine guns, the biochemical
suits … they were all part of a nightmare that
had come out of nowhere and which still
made no sense – with no sign of a way out.
Alex was baffled too. But the suits suggested
a dreadful possibility. Did Cray have bio-
chemical weapons? Was he planning to use
them?

At

last

they turned off

the motorway.
Looking out of the back flap, Alex saw a sign-
post to Heathrow Airport and suddenly he
knew, without being told, that this was their
true destination. He remembered the plane
he had seen at the compound. And Cray,
talking to him in the garden. Henryk is very
valuable to me. He flies jumbo jets. The air-
port had to be part of it, but it still didn’t ex-
plain so many things. The president of the

376/464
United States. Nuclear missiles. The very
name – Eagle Strike – itself. Alex was angry
with himself. It was all there in front of him.
Some sort of picture was taking shape. But it
was still blurred, out of focus.

They

stopped. Nobody moved. Then
Yassen spoke for the first time. “Out!” A
single word.

Alex went first, then helped Sabina down.
He enjoyed feeling her hand in his. There
was a sudden loud roar overhead and he
looked up just in time to see an aircraft
sweeping down out of the sky. He saw where
they were. They had stopped on the top floor
of an abandoned multistorey car park – a
legacy of Sir Arthur Lunt, Cray’s father. It
was on the very edge of Heathrow Airport,
near the main runway. The only car, apart
from their own, was a burnt-out shell. The
ground was strewn with rubble and old rust-
ing oil drums. Alex couldn’t imagine why
they had come here. Cray was waiting for a

377/464
signal. Something was going to happen. But
what?

Alex looked at his watch. It was exactly
half past two. Cray called them over. He had
travelled in the jeep with Henryk and now
Alex saw that there was a radio transmitter
on the back seat. Henryk turned a dial; there
was a loud whine. Cray was certainly making
a performance out of this. The radio had
been connected to a loudspeaker so that they
could all hear.

“It’s about to begin,” Cray said. He giggled.

“Exactly on time!”

Alex looked up. A second plane was com-
ing in. It was still too far away and too high
up to be seen clearly, but even so, he thought
he recognized something about its shape.
Suddenly a voice crackled out of the loud-
speaker in the jeep.

378/464
“Attention, air traffic control. This is Mil-
lennium Air flight 118 from Amsterdam. We
have a problem.”

The voice had been speaking in English
but with a heavy Dutch accent. There was a
pause, an empty hissing, and then a woman’s
voice replied. “Roger, MA 118. What is your
problem, over?”

“Mayday! Mayday!” The voice from the
aircraft was suddenly louder. “This is flight
MA 118. We have a fire on board. Request
immediate clearance to land.”

Another pause. Alex could imagine the
panic in the control tower at Heathrow. But
when the woman spoke again, her voice was
professional, calm. “Roger your mayday. We
have you on radar. Steer on 0-90. Descend
three thousand feet.”

“Air traffic control.” The radio crackled
again. “This is Captain Schroeder from flight
MA 118. I have to advise you that I am

379/464
carrying extremely hazardous biochemical
products on behalf of the Ministry of De-
fence. We have an emergency situation here.
Please advise.”

The Heathrow woman replied immedi-
ately. “We need to know what is on board.
Where is it and what are the quantities?”

“Air traffic control, we are carrying a nerve
gas. We cannot be more specific. It is highly
experimental
and extremely dangerous.
There are three canisters in the hold. We
now have a fire in the main cabin. Mayday!
Mayday!”

Alex looked again. The plane was much
lower now and he knew exactly where he had
seen it before. It was the cargo plane that he
had seen in the compound outside Amster-
dam. Smoke was streaming out of the side
and even as Alex watched, flames suddenly
exploded, spreading over the wings. To any-
one watching, it would seem that the plane

380/464
was in terrible danger. But Alex knew that
the whole thing had been faked.

The control

tower was monitoring the
plane. “Flight MA 118, the emergency ser-
vices have been alerted. We are beginning an
immediate evacuation of the airport. Please
proceed to twenty-seven left. You are cleared
to land.”

At once Alex heard the sound of alarms
coming from all over the airport. The plane
was still two or three thousand feet up, the
flames trailing behind it. He had to admit
that it looked totally convincing. Suddenly
everything was starting to make sense. He
was beginning to understand Cray’s plan.

“Time to roll!” Cray announced.
Alex and Sabina were led back to the truck.
Cray climbed into the jeep next to Henryk,
who was driving, and they set off. It was dif-
ficult for Alex to see what was happening
now as he only had a view out of the back,

381/464
but he guessed that they had left the car park
and were following the perimeter fence
around the airport. The alarms seemed to
have got louder; presumably they were get-
ting nearer to them. A number of police
sirens erupted in the distance and Alex no-
ticed that the road had got busier as cars tore
past, the drivers desperate to get away from
the immediate area.

“What’s he doing?” Sabina whispered.
“The plane isn’t on fire,” Alex said. “Cray’s
tricked them. He’s evacuating the airport.
That’s how we’re going to get in.”

“But why?”
“Enough,” Yassen said. “You don’t speak
now.” He reached under his seat and pro-
duced two gas masks which he handed to
Alex and Sabina. “Put these on.”

“Why do I need it?” Sabina asked.
“Just do as I say.”

382/464
“Well, it’ll ruin my make-up.” She put it on

anyway.

Alex did the same. All the men in the
truck, including Yassen, had gas masks. Sud-
denly they were completely anonymous. Alex
had to admit that there was a certain genius
to Cray’s scheme. It was a perfect way to
break into the airport. By now all the security
personnel would know that a plane carrying
a deadly nerve agent was about to crash-
land. The airport was in the throes of a full-
scale emergency evacuation. When Cray and
his miniature army arrived at the main gate,
it was unlikely that anyone would ask them
for ID. In their biochemical suits they looked
official. They were driving official-looking
vehicles. The fact that they had arrived at the
airport in record time wouldn’t be seen as
suspicious. It was more like a miracle.

It happened exactly as Alex suspected.
The jeep stopped at a gate on the south
side of the airport. The guards there were

383/464
both young. One of them had only been in
the job for a couple of weeks and was already
panicking, faced with a red alert. The cargo
plane hadn’t landed yet but it was getting
closer and closer, stumbling out of the air.
The fire was worse, clearly out of control.
And here were two trucks and an army
vehicle filled with men in white suits, hoods
and gas masks. He wasn’t going to argue.

Cray leant out of the door. He was as an-
onymous as the rest of his men, his face con-
cealed behind the gas mask. “Ministry of De-
fence,” he snapped. “Biochemical Weapons
division.”

“Go ahead!” The guards couldn’t hurry

them through fast enough.

The plane touched down. Two fire engines
and an assortment of emergency vehicles
began to race towards it. Their truck over-
took the jeep and came to a halt. Looking out
of the back, Alex saw everything.

384/464

It started with Damian Cray.
He was sitting in the passenger seat of the
jeep and had produced a radio transmitter.
“It’s time to raise the stakes,” he said. “Let’s
make this a real emergency.”

Somehow Alex knew what was about to
happen. Cray pressed a button and at once
the plane exploded, disappearing in a huge
fireball that erupted out of it and at the same
time consumed it. Fragments of wood and
metal spun in all directions. Burning aviation
fuel spilt over the runway, seeming to set it
alight
too. The emergency vehicles had
fanned out as if to surround the wreckage,
but then Alex realized that they had received
new orders from the control tower. There
was nothing more they could do. The pilot
and his crew on the plane were certainly
dead. Some unknown nerve gas could even
now be leaking into the atmosphere. Turn
round. Get out of there. Go!

385/464
Alex knew that Cray had cheated whoever
had flown the plane, killing them with ex-
actly the same cold-blooded ruthlessness
with which he killed anyone who got in his
way. The pilot would have been paid to send
out the false alarm and then to fake a crash
landing. He wouldn’t have known that there
was a load of plastic explosive concealed on
board. He might have expected a long stay in
an English prison. He hadn’t been told his
job was to die.

Sabina wasn’t watching. Alex couldn’t see
anything of her face – the gas mask had
fogged up – but her head was turned away.
For a moment he felt desperately sorry for
her. What had she got into? And to think
that this had all begun with a holiday in the
South of France!

The truck jerked forward. They were inside
the airport. Cray had managed to short-cir-
cuit
the entire security system. Nobody
would notice them – at least not for a while.

386/464
But the questions still remained. What had
they come for? Why here?

And then they slowed down one last time.
Alex looked out. And at last everything made
sense.

They had stopped in front of a plane, a
Boeing 747-200B. But it was much more
than that. Its body had been painted blue
and white, with the words UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA written across the main fusel-
age and the Stars and Stripes emblazoned on
its tail. And there was the eagle, clutching a
shield, just below the door, mocking Alex for
not having guessed before. The eagle that
had given Eagle Strike its name. It was the
presidential seal and this was the presiden-
tial plane, Air Force One. This was the reas-
on why Damian Cray was here.

Alex had seen it on the television in Blunt’s
office. The plane that had brought the Amer-
ican president to England. It flew him all
over the world, travelling at just below the

387/464
speed of sound. Alex knew very little about
it, but then virtually all information about
Air Force One was restricted. But one thing
he did know. Just about anything that could
be done in the White House could be done
on the plane, even while it was in the air.

Just about anything. Including starting a

nuclear war.

There were two men standing guard on the
steps that led up to the open door and the
main cabin. They were soldiers, dressed in
khaki combat gear and black berets. As Cray
got out of the car, they brought up their
guns, moving into a position of alert. They
had heard the alarms. They knew something
was happening at the airport but they wer-
en’t sure what it had to do with them.

“What’s going on?” one of them asked.
Damian Cray said nothing. His hand came
up and suddenly he was holding a pistol. He
fired twice, the bullets making hardly any

388/464
sound – or perhaps the noise of the gun was
somehow dwarfed by the immensity of the
plane. The soldiers twisted round and fell
onto the tarmac. Nobody had seen what had
happened. All eyes were on the runway and
the still-burning debris of the cargo plane.

Alex felt a surge of hatred for Cray, for his
cowardice. The American soldiers hadn’t
been expecting trouble. The president was
nowhere near the airport. Air Force One
wasn’t due to take off for another day. Cray
could have knocked them out; he could have
taken them prisoner. But it had been easier
to kill them; already he was putting the gun
back into his pocket, two human lives simply
brushed aside and forgotten. Sabina stood
next to him, staring in disbelief.

“Wait here,” Cray said. He had removed
his gas mask. His face was flushed with
excitement.

Yassen Gregorovich and half the men ran
up the steps onto the plane. The other half

389/464
stripped off their white suits to reveal Amer-
ican army uniforms underneath. Cray hadn’t
missed a trick. If anyone did chance to turn
their attention away from the cargo plane, it
would seem that Air Force One was under
heavy guard and that everything was normal.
In fact, nothing could have been further from
the truth.

More gunfire came from inside the plane.
Cray was taking no prisoners. Anyone in his
way was being finished without hesitation,
without mercy.

Cray stood next to Alex. “Welcome to the
VIP lounge,” he said. “You might like to
know, that’s what they call this whole section
of the airport.” He pointed at a glass and
steel building on the other side of the plane.
“That’s where they all go. Presidents, prime
ministers … I’ve been in there once or twice
as a matter of fact. Very comfortable, and no
queues for passport control!”

“Let us go,” Alex said. “You don’t need us.”

390/464
“Would you rather I killed you now, in-

stead of later?”

Sabina glanced at Alex but said nothing.
Yassen appeared at the door of the plane
and signalled. Air Force One had been taken.
There was no one left to fight. Cray’s men
filed past him and made their way back down
the stairs. One of them had been wounded;
there was blood on the sleeve of his suit. So
at least someone had tried to fight back!

“I think we can go on board,” Cray said.
All his men were now dressed as American
soldiers, forming a half circle round the steps
leading up to the door of the plane, a defens-
ive wall in the event of a counter-attack.
Henryk had already climbed up; Alex and
Sabina followed him. Cray was right behind
them, holding his gun. So there were only
going to be the five of them on the plane.
Alex filed the information somewhere in his
mind. At least the odds had been shortened.

391/464
Sabina was numb, walking as if hypnot-
ized. Alex knew what she was feeling. His
own legs almost refused to carry him, to take
these steps, reserved for the most powerful
man on the planet. As the door loomed up
ahead, with another eagle mounted on its
side, he saw Yassen appear from inside,
dragging a body dressed in blue trousers and
a blue waistcoat: one of the air stewards.
Another innocent man sacrificed for Cray’s
mad dream.

Alex entered the plane.
Air Force One was like no other plane in
the world. There were no seats cramped to-
gether, no economy class, nothing that
looked even remotely like the inside of an or-
dinary jumbo jet. It had been modified for
the president and his staff over three floors:
offices and bedrooms, a conference room
and kitchen … four thousand square feet of
cabin space in all. Somewhere inside, there
was even an operating table, although it had

392/464
never been used. Alex found himself in an
open-plan living area. Everything had been
designed for comfort, with a thick-pile car-
pet, low sofas and armchairs, and tables with
old-fashioned electric lamps. The predomin-
ant colours were beige and brown, softly lit
by dozens of lights recessed into the ceiling.
A long corridor led down one side of the
plane, with a series of smart offices and seat-
ing areas branching off. There were more so-
fas and occasional tables at intervals all the
way down. The windows were covered with
fawn-coloured blinds.

Yassen had cleared away the bodies but he
had left a bloodstain on the carpet. It was
horribly noticeable. The rest of the plane had
been cleaned and vacuumed until
it was
spotless. There was a wheeled trolley against
one of the walls and Alex noticed the gleam-
ing crystal glasses, each one engraved with
the words AIR FORCE ONE and a picture of
the plane. A number of bottles stood on the

393/464
lower shelf of the trolley: rare malt whiskies
and vintage wines. It was service with a
smile, all right. To fly on this plane was a
privilege enjoyed by only a handful of people
and they would be surrounded by total
luxury.

Even Cray, who had his own private jet,
looked impressed. He glanced at Yassen. “Is
that it?” he asked. “Have we killed everyone
who needs killing?”

Yassen nodded.
“Then let’s get started. I’ll take Alex. I want

to show him… You wait here.”

Cray nodded at Alex. Alex knew he had no
choice. He took one last glance at Sabina and
tried to tell her with his eyes: I’ll think of
something. I’ll get us out of here. But some-
how he doubted it. The enormity of Eagle
Strike had finally hit him. Air Force One! The
presidential plane. It had never been invaded

394/464
in this way – and no wonder. Nobody else
would have been mad enough to consider it.

Cray jabbed Alex with the gun, forcing him
up a stairway. Half of him hoped they would
meet someone. Just one soldier or one mem-
ber of the cabin crew who had managed to
escape and who might be lying in wait. But
he knew that Yassen would have been thor-
ough in his work. He had told Cray that the
entire crew had been dealt with. Alex didn’t
like to think how many men and women
there might have been on board.

They entered a room filled with electronic
equipment
from floor to ceiling. Hugely
sophisticated computers stood next to elab-
orate telephone and radar systems with
banks of buttons, switches and blinking
lights. Even the ceiling was covered with ma-
chinery. Alex realized he was standing in the
communications centre of Air Force One.
Someone must have been working there

395/464
when Cray took over the plane. The door
wasn’t locked.

“Nobody at home,” Cray said. “I’m afraid
they weren’t expecting visitors. We have the
place to ourselves.” He took the flash drive
out of his pocket. “This is the moment of
truth, Alex,” he said. “This is all thanks to
you. But do, please, stay very still. I don’t
want to kill you until you’ve seen this, but if
you so much as blink, I’m afraid I may have
to shoot you.”

Cray knew what he was doing. He laid the
gun on the table next to him so that it would
never be more than a few centimetres from
his hand. Then he opened the flash drive and
plugged it into a socket in the front of the
computer. Finally he sat down and tapped
out a series of commands on the keyboard.

“I can’t explain exactly how this works,” he
said as he continued. “We don’t have time,
and anyway I’ve always found computers and
all
these

really dreary. But

that

stuff

396/464
computers here are just like the ones in the
White House, and they’re connected to
Mount Cheyenne, which is where our Amer-
ican friends have their top-secret under-
ground nuclear weapons control centre.
Now, the first things you need to set off the
nuclear missiles are the launch codes. They
change every day and they’re sent to the
president, wherever he is, by the National
Security Agency. I hope I am not boring you,
Alex?”

Alex didn’t reply. He was looking at the

gun, measuring distances…

“The president carries them with him all
the time. Did you know that President Carter
actually lost the codes once? He sent them to
the dry-cleaner’s. But that’s another story.
The codes are transmitted by Milstar – the
Military Strategic and Tactical Relay system.
It’s a satellite communications system. One
set goes to the Pentagon and one set comes

397/464
here. The codes are inside the computer
and…”

There was a buzzing sound and a number
of lights on the control panel suddenly went
green. Cray let out a cry of pleasure. His face
glowed green in the reflection.

“…and here they are now. Wasn’t that
quick! Strange though it may seem, I am now
in control of just about all the nuclear mis-
siles in the United States. Isn’t that fun?”

He tapped more quickly on the keyboard
and for a moment he was transformed. As
his fingers danced over the keys, Alex was re-
minded of the Damian Cray he had seen
playing the piano at Earls Court and Wemb-
ley Stadium. There was a dreamy smile on
his face and his eyes were far away.

“There is, of course, a fail-safe device built
into it all,” he continued. “The Americans
wouldn’t want just anyone firing off their

398/464
missiles, would they! No. Only the president
can do it, because of this…”

Cray took a small silver key out of his
pocket. Alex guessed that it must be a duplic-
ate, also provided by Charlie Roper. Cray in-
serted it into a complicated-looking silver
lock built into the workstation and opened it.
There were two red buttons underneath. One
to launch the missiles. The other marked
with two words which were of more interest
to Alex. SELF-DESTRUCT.

Cray was only interested in the first of

them.

“This is the button,” he said. “The big but-
ton. The one you’ve read all about. The but-
ton that means the end of the world. But it’s
fingerprint sensitive. If it isn’t the president’s
finger, then you might as well go home.” He
reached out and pressed the launch button.
Nothing happened. “You see? It doesn’t
work!”

399/464
“Then all this has been a waste of time!”

Alex said.

“Oh no, my dear Alex. Because, you see,
you may remember that I recently had the
privilege – the very great privilege – of shak-
ing hands with the president. I insisted on it.
It was that important to me. But I had a spe-
cial latex coating on my own hand, and when
we shook, I took a cast of his fingers. Isn’t
that clever?”

Cray removed what looked like a thin
plastic glove from his pocket and slipped it
onto his hand. Alex saw that the fingers of
the glove were moulded. He understood. The
president’s fingerprints had been duplicated
onto the latex surface.

Cray now had the power to launch his nuc-

lear attack.

“Wait a minute,” Alex said.
“Yes?”

400/464
“You’re wrong. You’re terribly wrong. You
think you’re making things better, but you’re
not!” He struggled to find the right words.
“You’ll kill thousands of people. Hundreds of
thousands of people, and most of them will
be innocent. They won’t have anything to do
with drugs…”

“There have to be sacrifices. But if a thou-
sand people die to save a million, what’s so
wrong with that?”

“Everything is wrong with it! What about
the fallout? Have you thought what it’ll do to
the rest of the planet? I thought you cared
about the environment. But you’re going to
destroy it.”

“It’s a price worth paying, and one day the
whole world will agree. You’ve got to be cruel
to be kind.”

“You only think that because you’re

insane.”

Cray reached for the launch button.

401/464
Alex dived forward. He no longer cared
about his own safety. He couldn’t even pro-
tect Sabina. The two of them might be killed,
but he had to stop this happening. He had to
protect the millions who would die all over
the world if Cray was allowed to continue.
Twenty-five nuclear missiles falling simul-
taneously out of the sky! It was beyond
imagination.

But Cray had been expecting the move.
Suddenly the gun was in his hand and his
arm was swinging through the air. Alex felt a
savage blow on the side of his head as Cray
struck him. He was thrown back, dazed. The
room swam in front of his eyes, and he
stumbled and fell.

“Too late,” Cray muttered.
He reached out and drew a circle in the air

with a single finger.

He paused.
Then he stabbed down.

“FASTEN YOUR SEAT BELTS”

The missiles had been activated.
All over America, in deserts and in moun-
tains, on roads and railways, even out at sea,
the launch sequences began automatically.
Bases in North Dakota, Montana and Wyom-
ing suddenly went onto red alert. Sirens
howled. Computers went into frantic over-
drive. It was the start of a panic that would
spread in minutes all around the world.

And one by one the twenty-five rockets
blasted into the air in a moment of terrible
beauty.

Eight Minutemen, eight Peacekeepers, five
Poseidons and four Trident D5s climbed into
the upper atmosphere at exactly the same
time, travelling at speeds of up to fifteen

403/464
thousand miles per hour. Some were fired
from silos buried deep under the ground.
Some exploded out of specially adapted train
carriages. Others came from submarines.
And nobody knew who had given the order.
It was a billion-dollar fireworks display that
would change the world for ever.

And in ninety minutes it would all be over.

In the communications room the computer
screens were flashing red. The entire operat-
ing board was ablaze with flashing lights.
Cray stood up. There was a serene smile on
his face.

“Well, that’s it,” he said. “There’s nothing

anyone can do now.”

“They’ll stop them!” Alex said. “As soon as
they realize what’s happened, they’ll press a
button and all your missiles will
self-
destruct.”

404/464
“I’m afraid it’s not quite as easy as that.
You see, all the launch protocols have been
obeyed. It was the Air Force One computer
that set the missiles off; so only Air Force
One can terminate them. I noticed you eye-
ing the little red button on the keyboard
right here. SELF-DESTRUCT. But I’m afraid
you’re not going anywhere near it, Alex.
We’re leaving.”

Cray gestured with the gun and Alex was
forced out of the communications room and
back down to the main cabin. His head was
still hurting where Cray had hit him. He
needed to recover his strength. But how
much time did he have left?

Yassen and Sabina were waiting for them.
As soon as Alex appeared, Sabina tried to go
over to him but Yassen held her back. Cray
sank into a sofa next to her.

“Time to go!” he said. He smiled at Alex.
“You realize, of course, that once this plane is
in the air, it’s virtually indestructible. You

405/464
could say it’s the perfect getaway vehicle.
That’s the beauty of it. It has over two hun-
dred and thirty miles of wiring inside the
frame which is designed to withstand even
the pulse of a thermonuclear blast. Not that
it would make any difference anyway. If they
did manage to shoot us down, the missiles
would still find their target. The world would
still be saved!”

Alex tried to clear his head. He had to

think straight.

There were just the five of them on the
plane. Sabina, Yassen, Damian Cray and
himself – with Henryk in the cockpit. Alex
looked out of the main door. The ring of fake
American soldiers was still in place. Even if
anyone at the airport glanced their way, they
would see nothing wrong. Not that that was
likely to happen. The authorities must still be
concentrating on the cloud of deadly nerve
gas that didn’t in fact exist.

406/464
Alex knew that if he was going to do any-
thing – if there was anything he could do – it
would have to happen before the plane left
the ground. Cray was right. Once the plane
was in the air, he would have no chance at
all.

“Close the door, Mr Gregorovich,” Cray
commanded. “I think we should be on our
way.”

“Wait a minute!” Alex started to get to his
feet but Cray signalled to him to sit down.
The gun was in his hand. It was a Smith and
Wesson .40, small and powerful with its
three and a half inch barrel and square hand-
grip. Alex knew that it was extremely danger-
ous to fire a gun on a normal plane. Breaking
a window or penetrating the outer skin
would depressurize the cabin and make
flight impossible. But this, of course, was Air
Force One. This was not a normal plane.

“Stay exactly where you are,” Cray said.

407/464
“Where are you taking us?” Sabina deman-
ded. Cray was still sitting on the sofa next to
her. He obviously thought it would be better
to keep her and Alex apart. He reached out
and ran a finger across her cheek. Sabina
shuddered. She found him revolting and
didn’t care if he knew it. “We’re going to
Russia,” he said.

“Russia?” Alex looked puzzled.
“A new life for me. And a return home for
Mr Gregorovich.” Cray licked his lips. “As a
matter of
fact, Mr Gregorovich will be
something of a hero.”

“I rather doubt that.” Alex couldn’t keep

the scorn out of his voice.

“Oh yes. Heroin is smuggled into the coun-
try – I am told – in lead-lined coffins, and
the border guards simply look the other way.
Of course, they’re paid. Corruption is every-
where. Drugs are ten times less expensive in
Russia than they are in Europe and there are

408/464
at least three and a half million addicts in
Moscow and St Petersburg. Mr Gregorovich
will be ending a problem that has almost
brought his country to its knees, and I know
that the president will be grateful. So you
see, it looks as if the two of us are going to
live happily ever after – which, I’m afraid, is
more than can be said for you.”

Yassen had closed the door. Alex watched
locking it.

as he pulled the lever down,
“Doors to automatic,” said Yassen.

There was a speaker system active in the
plane. Everything that was said in the main
cabin could be heard in the cockpit. And, sit-
ting at the flight deck, Henryk flicked a
switch so that his voice too could be heard
throughout the plane.

“This is your captain speaking,” he said.
“Please fasten your seat belts and prepare for
take-off.” He was joking: a grisly parody of a
real departure. “Thank you for flying with

409/464
Cray Airlines. I hope you have a pleasant
flight.”

The engines started up. Out of the window
Alex saw the soldiers scatter and run back to
the trucks. Their work was done. They would
leave the airport and make their way home to
Amsterdam. He glanced at Sabina. She was
sitting very still and he remembered that she
was waiting for him to do something. I know
things… You have to leave everything to me.
That was what he had told her. How very
hollow the words sounded now.

Air Force One was equipped with four
huge engines. Alex heard them as they began
to turn. They were about to leave! Desper-
ately he looked around him: at the closed
door with its white lever slanting down, at
the stairway leading up towards the cockpit,
at the low tables and neatly arranged line of
magazines, at the trolley with its bottles and
glasses. Cray was sitting with his legs slightly
apart, the gun resting on his thigh. Yassen

410/464
was still standing by the door. He had a
second gun. It was in one of his pockets but
Alex knew that the Russian could draw, aim
and fire before he had time to blink. There
were no other weapons in sight, nothing he
could get his hands on. Hopeless.

The plane jerked and began to pull back
from its stand. Alex looked out of the win-
dow again and saw something extraordinary.
There was a vehicle parked next to the VIP
building, not far from the plane. It was like a
miniature tractor, with three carriages at-
tached, loaded with plastic boxes. As Alex
watched, it was suddenly blown away as if it
had been made of paper. The carriages spun
round and broke free. The tractor itself
crashed onto its side and skidded across the
tarmac.

It was the engines! Normally a plane of
this size would have been towed to an open
area out of harm’s way before it began to
taxi. Cray, of course, wasn’t going to wait. Air

411/464
Force One had been put into reverse thrust
and the engines – with a thrust rating of over
two hundred thousand pounds – were so
powerful that they would blow away any-
thing or anyone who came near. Now it was
the turn of the VIP building itself. Windows
shattered, the glass exploding inwards. A se-
curity man had come out and Alex saw him
thrown back like a plastic soldier fired from
an elastic band. A voice came through on the
speakers inside the cabin. Henryk must have
connected up the radio so that they could
hear.

“This is air traffic control to Air Force
One.” This time it was a man’s voice. “You
have no clearance to taxi. Please stop
immediately.”

The stairs that they had climbed to board
the plane toppled to one side, crashing onto
the tarmac. The plane was moving more
quickly now, backing out onto the main
apron.

412/464
“This is air traffic control to Air Force One.
We repeat: you have no clearance to taxi.
Can you please state your intentions…”

They were out in the open, away from the
VIP lounge. The main runway was behind
them. The rest of the airport must have been
almost a mile away. Inside the cockpit
Henryk put the plane into forward thrust,
and Alex felt the jolt and heard the whine of
the engines as once again they began to
move. Cray was humming to himself, his
eyes vacant, lost in his own world. But the
Smith and Wesson was still in his hand and
Alex knew that
the slightest movement
would bring an instant response. Yassen
hadn’t stirred. He also seemed wrapped up
in his own thoughts, as if he was trying to
forget that this was happening.

The plane began to pick up speed, heading
for the runway. There was a computer in the
cockpit and Henryk had already fed in all the
necessary information: the weight of the

413/464
plane, the outside air temperature, the wind
speed, the pressure. He would take off into
the breeze, now coming from the east. The
main runway is nearly four thousand metres
long and the computer had already calcu-
lated that the aircraft would only need two
and a half thousand of them. It was almost
empty. This was going to be an easy take-off.
“Air Force One. You have no clearance.
Please abort immediately. Repeat: abort at
once.”

The voice from air traffic control was still
buzzing in his headphones. Henryk reached
up and turned the radio off. He knew that an
emergency overdrive would have gone into
operation and any other planes would be di-
verted out of his way. After all, this aircraft
did belong to the president of the United
States of America. Already the Heathrow au-
thorities would be screaming at each other
over the phone lines, fearing not just a crash
but a major diplomatic incident. Downing

414/464
Street would have been informed. All over
London, officials and civil servants would be
asking the same desperate question.

What the hell is going on?

and

A hundred kilometres above their heads, the
eight Peacekeeper missiles were nearing the
edge of space. Two of their rockets had
already burnt out and separated,
leaving
only the last sections with their deployment
modules
shrouds. The
Minutemen and the other missiles that Cray
had fired weren’t far behind. All of them
carried top-secret and highly advanced nav-
igation systems. On-board computers were
already calculating trajectories and making
adjustments. Soon the missiles would turn
and lock into their targets.

protective

And in eighty minutes they would fall back

to earth.

415/464
Air Force One was moving rapidly now, fol-
lowing the taxi paths to the main runway.
Ahead was the holding point where it would
make a sharp turn and begin pre-flight
checks.

In the cabin Sabina examined Cray as if
seeing him for the first
time. Her face
showed only contempt. “I wonder what
they’ll do with you when you get to Russia,”
she said.

“What do you mean?” Cray asked.
“I wonder if they’ll get rid of you by send-
ing you back to England or just shoot you
and be done with it.”

Cray stared at her. He looked as if he had
been slapped across the face. Alex flinched,
fearing the worst. And it came.

“I’ve had enough of these guttersnipes,”
Cray snapped. “They’re not amusing me any
more.” He turned to Yassen. “Kill them.”

416/464
Yassen seemed not to have heard. “What?”

he asked.

“You heard me. I’m bored of them. Kill

them now!”

The plane stopped. They had reached the
holding point. Henryk had heard the instruc-
tions being given in the main cabin but he ig-
nored what was happening as he went
through the final procedures: lifting the elev-
ators up and down, turning the ailerons. He
was seconds away from take-off. As soon as
he was satisfied that the plane was ready, he
would push down the four thrust levers and
they would rocket forward. He tested the
and
rudder
nose wheel.
Everything was ready.

pedals

the

“I do not kill children,” Yassen said. Alex
had heard him say exactly the same thing on
the boat in the South of France. He hadn’t
believed him then, but he wondered now
what was going on inside the Russian’s
mind.

417/464
Sabina watched Alex intently, waiting for
him to do something. But trapped inside the
plane, with the whine of the engines already
beginning to rise, there was nothing he could
do. Not yet…

“What are you saying?” Cray demanded.
“There is no need for this,” Yassen said.

“Take them with us. They can do no harm.”

“Why should I want to take them all the

way to Russia?”

“We can lock them in one of the cabins.

You don’t even need to see them.”

“Mr Gregorovich…” Cray was breathing
heavily. There was a bead of sweat on his
forehead and his grip on the gun was tighter
than ever. “If you don’t kill them, I will.”

Yassen didn’t move.
“All right! All right!” Cray sighed. “I
thought I was meant to be in charge, but it
seems that I have to do everything myself.”

418/464
Cray brought up his gun. Alex got to his

feet.

“No!” Sabina cried.
Cray fired.
But he hadn’t been aiming at Sabina or
even at Alex. The bullet hit Yassen in the
chest, spinning him away from the door. “I’m
sorry, Mr Gregorovich,” he said. “But you’re
fired.”

Then he turned the gun on Alex.
“You’re next,” he said.
He fired a second time.
Sabina cried out in horror. Cray had aimed
at Alex’s heart, and in the confined space of
the cabin there was little chance he could
miss. The force of the bullet threw Alex off
his feet and back across the cabin. He
crashed to the ground and lay still.

Sabina threw herself at Cray. Alex was
dead. The plane was taking off. Nothing

419/464
mattered any more. Cray fired at her but the
shot missed and suddenly she was right up
against him, her hands clawing at his eyes,
shouting all the time. But Cray was too
strong for her. He brought an arm round,
grabbed hold of her and threw her back
against the door. She lay there, dazed and
helpless. The gun came up.

“Goodbye, my dear,” Cray said.
He aimed. But before he could fire, his
arm was seized from behind. Sabina stared.
Alex was up again and he was unhurt. It was
impossible. But, like Cray, she had no way of
knowing that he was wearing the bulletproof
jersey that Smithers had given him with the
bike. The bullet had hurt him; he thought it
might have cracked a rib. But although it had
knocked him down, it hadn’t penetrated his
skin.

Now Alex was on top of Cray. The man was
small – only a little taller than Alex himself –
but even so he was thickset and surprisingly

420/464
strong. Alex managed to get one hand
around Cray’s wrist, keeping the gun away
from him. But Cray’s other hand grabbed
Alex’s neck, his fingers curling into the side
of Alex’s throat.

“Sabina! Get out of here!” Alex managed to
shout the words before his air supply was cut
off. The gun was out of control. He was using
all his strength to stop Cray from aiming it at
him and he wasn’t sure how much longer he
would be able to hold him off. Sabina ran
over to the main door and pulled up the
white handle to open it.

At that exact moment,

in the cockpit,
Henryk pushed the four thrust levers all the
way down. From where he sat, the runway
stretched out in front of him. The path was
clear. Air Force One lurched forward and
started to take off.

The main door flew open with a loud hiss.
It had been set to automatic before the plane
began to move, and as soon as Sabina had

421/464
unlocked it, a pneumatic system had kicked
in. An orange slide extended itself from the
doorway like a giant tongue and began to in-
flate. The emergency slide.

Wind and dust rushed in, a miniature tor-
nado that whirled madly through the cabin.
Cray had brought the gun round, aiming at
Alex’s head, but the force of the wind sur-
prised him. The magazines on the table flew
into the air, flapping into his face like giant
moths. The trolley of drinks broke loose and
rattled across the carpet, bottles and glasses
crashing down.

Cray’s face was contorted, his perfect teeth
in a twisted snarl, his eyes bulging. He
swore, but no sound could be heard against
the roar of the engines. Sabina was pressed
against the wall, staring helplessly through
the open doorway at the grass and concrete
rushing past in a green and grey blur. Yassen
wasn’t moving; blood was spreading slowly
across his shirt. Alex could feel the strength

422/464
draining out of him. He relaxed his grip and
the gun went off. Sabina screamed. The bul-
let had smashed a light fitting inches from
her face. Alex jabbed down, trying to knock
the gun out of Cray’s hand. Cray slammed a
knee into his stomach and Alex reeled back,
gasping for breath. The plane continued,
faster and faster, hurtling down the runway.
Behind the controls Henryk was suddenly
sweating. The eyes behind the spectacles
were confused. He had seen a light blink on,
warning him that a door had opened and
that the main cabin was depressurized. He
was already travelling at a hundred and
thirty miles an hour. Air traffic control must
have realized what was happening and would
have alerted the authorities. If he stopped
now, he would be arrested. But did he dare
take off?

And then the on-board computer spoke.
“V1…”

423/464
It was a machine voice. Utterly emotion-
less. Two syllables brought together by elec-
tronic circuitry. And they were the last two
syllables Henryk wanted to hear.

Normally it would have been the first of-
ficer who called out the speeds, keeping an
eye on the progress of the plane. But Henryk
was on his own. He had to rely on the auto-
mated system. What
the computer was
telling him was that the plane was moving at
one hundred and fifty miles per hour – V1 –
decision speed. He was now going too fast to
stop. If he tried to abort the take-off, if he
put the engines into reverse, he would crash.
It is the moment every pilot dreads – and
the single most dangerous moment in any
flight. More plane crashes have been caused
by a wrong decision at this time than by any-
thing else. Every instinct in Henryk’s body
told him to stop. He was safe on the ground.
A crash here would be better than a crash
from fifteen hundred feet up in the air. But if

424/464
he did try to stop, a crash would be the cer-
tain result.

He didn’t know what to do.

*

*

*

The sun was setting in the town of Quetta in
Pakistan, but life in the refugee camp was as
busy as ever. Hundreds of people clutching
blankets and stoves made their way through
a miniature city of tents, while children,
some of them in rags, queued for vaccina-
tions. A row of women sat on benches, work-
ing on a quilt, beating and folding the cotton.
The air was cool and fresh in the Patkai
Hills of Myanmar, the country that had once
been Burma. Fourteen hundred metres
above sea level, the breeze carried the scent
of pine trees and flowers. It was half past
nine at night and most people were asleep. A

425/464
few shepherds sat alone with their flocks.
Thousands of stars littered the night sky.

In Colombia, in the Urabá region, another
day had dawned and the smell of chocolate
wafted down the village street. The campesi-
nas – the farmers’ wives – had begun work-
ing at dawn, toasting the cacao beans, then
splitting the shells. Children were drawn to
their doors, taking in the rich, irresistible
scent.

And in the highlands of Peru, north of Are-
quipa,
families in colourful clothes made
their way to the markets, some carrying the
little bundles of fruit and vegetables that
were all they had to sell. A woman in a bowl-
er hat sat hunched up beside a row of sacks,
each one filled with a different spice. Laugh-
ing teenagers kicked a football in the street.

These were the targets that the missiles
had selected, far out in space. There were
thousands – millions – more like them. And
they were all innocent. They knew about the

426/464
fields where the poppies were grown. They
knew the men who worked there. But that
was no concern of theirs. Life had to go on.

And none of them had any knowledge of
the deadly missiles that were already closing
in on them. None of them saw the horror
that was coming their way.

The end came very quickly on Air Force One.
Cray was punching the side of Alex’s head
again and again. Alex still clung to the gun,
but his grip was weakening. He finally fell
back, bloody and exhausted. His face was
bruised, his eyes half closed.

The emergency slide was jutting out now,
horizontal with the plane. The rush of air
was pushing it back, slanting it towards the
wings. The plane was travelling at a hundred
and eighty miles per hour. It would leave the
ground in less than ten seconds’ time.

Cray raised the gun one last time.

427/464
Then he cried out as something slammed
into him. It was Sabina. She had grabbed
hold of the trolley and used it as a battering
ram. The trolley hit him behind the knees.
His legs buckled and he lost his balance, top-
pling over backwards. He landed on top of
the trolley, dropping the gun. Sabina dived
for it, determined that he wouldn’t fire an-
other shot.

And that was when Alex rose up.
He had quickly gauged distances and
angles. He knew what he had to do. With a
cry he threw himself forward, his arms out-
stretched. His palms slammed into the side
of the trolley. Cray yelled out. The trolley
shot across the main area of the cabin and,
with Cray still on top of it, out the door.

And it didn’t stop there. The emergency
slide slanted gently towards the ground that
was shooting past far below. It was held in
place by the rushing wind and by the com-
pressed air inside it. The trolley bounced out

428/464
onto the slide and began to roll down. Alex
staggered over to the door just in time to see
Cray begin his fairground ride to hell. The
slide carried him halfway down, the force of
the wind tilting him back towards the wings.
Damian Cray came into the general area of

engine two.

The last thing he saw was the engine’s gap-
ing mouth. Then the wind rush took him.
With a dreadful, inaudible scream he was
pulled into the engine. The trolley went with
him.

Cray was mincemeat. More than that, he
was vaporized. In one second he had been
turned into a cloud of red gas that disap-
peared into the atmosphere. There was
simply nothing left. But the metal trolley
offered more resistance. There was a bang
like a cannon shot. A huge tongue of flame
exploded out of the back as the engine was
torn apart.

429/464
That was when the plane went out of

control.

Henryk had decided to abort take-off and
was trying to slow down, but now it was too
late. An engine on one side had suddenly
stopped. Both engines on the other side were
still on full power. The imbalance sent the
plane lurching violently to the left. Alex and
Sabina were thrown to the floor. Lights fused
and sparked all around them. Anything that
wasn’t securely fastened whirled through the
air. Henryk fought for control but it was
hopeless. The plane veered away and left the
runway. That was the end of it. The soft
ground was unable to support such a huge
load. With a terrible shearing of metal, the
undercarriage broke off and the whole thing
toppled over onto one side.

The entire cabin twisted round and Alex
felt the floor tilt beneath his feet. It was as if
the plane was turning upside down. But fi-
nally it stopped. The engines cut out. The

430/464
plane rested on its side and the scream of
sirens filled the air as emergency vehicles
raced across the tarmac.

Alex tried to move but his legs wouldn’t
obey him. He was lying on the floor and he
could feel the darkness closing in. But he
knew he had to stay conscious. His work
wasn’t finished yet.

“Sab?” He called out to her and was re-
lieved when she got to her feet and came
over.

“Alex?”
“You have to get to the communications
room. There’s a button. Self-destruct.” For a
moment she looked blank and he took hold
of her arm. “The missiles…”

“Yes. Yes … of course.” She was in shock.
Too much had happened. But she under-
stood. She staggered up the stairs, balancing
herself against the sloping walls. Alex lay
where he was.

431/464

And then Yassen spoke.
“Alex…”
Alex didn’t have enough strength left to be
surprised. He turned his head slowly, expect-
ing to see a gun in the Russian’s hand. It
didn’t seem fair to him. After so much, was
he really going to die now, just when help
was on its way? But Yassen wasn’t holding a
gun. He had propped himself up against a
table. He was covered in blood now and
there was a strange quality to his eyes as the
blue slowly drained out. Yassen’s skin was
even paler than usual and, as his head tilted
back, Alex noticed for the first time that he
had a long scar on his neck. It was dead
straight, as if it had been drawn with a ruler.

“Please…” Yassen’s voice was soft.
It was the last thing he wanted to do, but
Alex crawled through the wreckage of the
cabin and over to him. He remembered that
Cray’s death and the destruction of the plane

432/464
had only happened because Yassen had re-
fused to kill Sabina and him.

“What happened to Cray?” Yassen asked.
“He went off his trolley,” Alex said.
“He’s dead?”
“Very.”
Yassen nodded, as if pleased. “I knew it
was a mistake working for him,” he said. “I
knew.” He fought for breath, narrowing his
eyes for a moment. “There is something I
have to tell you, Alex,” he said. The strange
thing was that he was speaking absolutely
normally, as if this were a quiet conversation
between friends. Despite himself, Alex found
himself marvelling at the man’s self-control.
He must have only minutes to live.

Then Yassen spoke again and everything

in Alex’s life changed for ever.

433/464
“I couldn’t kill you,” he said. “I would nev-
er have killed you. Because, you see, Alex … I
knew your father.”

“What?” Despite his exhaustion, despite all
felt

injuries, Alex

the pain from his
something shiver through him.

“Your father. He and I…” Yassen had to

catch his breath. “We worked together.”

“He worked with you?”
“Yes.”
“You mean … he was a spy?”
“Not a spy, no, Alex. He was a killer. Like
me. He was the very best. The best in the
world. I knew him when I was nineteen. He
taught me many things…”

“No!” Alex refused to accept what he was
hearing. He had never met his father, knew
nothing about him. But what Yassen was
saying couldn’t be true. It was some sort of
horrible trick.

434/464
The sirens were getting nearer. The first of
the vehicles must have arrived. He could
hear men shouting outside.

“I don’t believe you,” Alex cried. “My fath-

er wasn’t a killer. He couldn’t have been!”

“I’m telling you the truth. You have to

know.”

“Did he work for MI6?”
“No.” The ghost of a smile flickered across
Yassen’s face. But it was filled with sadness.
“MI6 hunted him down. They killed him.
They tried to kill both of us. At the last
minute I escaped, but he…” Yassen swal-
lowed. “They killed your father, Alex.”

“No!”
“Why would I lie to you?” Yassen reached
out weakly and took hold of Alex’s arm. It
was the first physical contact the two had
ever had. “Your father … he did this.” Yassen
drew a finger along the scar on his neck, but
his voice was failing him and he couldn’t

435/464
explain. “He saved my life. In a way, I loved
him. I love you too, Alex. You are so very
much like him. I’m glad that you’re here with
me now.” There was a pause and a spasm of
pain rippled across the dying man’s face.
There was one last thing he had to say. “If
you don’t believe me, go to Venice. Find
Scorpia. And you will find your destiny…”

Yassen shut his eyes and Alex knew he

would never open them again.

In the communications

room Sabina
found the button and pressed it. In space the
first of the Minutemen blew itself into thou-
sands of pieces, a brilliant, soundless explo-
sion. Seconds later the other missiles did the
same.

Air Force One was surrounded. A fleet of
emergency vehicles had reached it and two
trucks were spraying it down, covering it in
torrents of white foam.

436/464
But Alex didn’t know any of this. He was
lying next to Yassen, his eyes closed. He had
quietly and thankfully passed out.

RICHMOND BRIDGE

The swans really weren’t going anywhere.
They seemed happy just to circle slowly in
the sunshine, occasionally dipping their
beaks under the surface of the water, search-
ing for insects, algae, whatever. Alex had
been watching them for the last half-hour,
almost hypnotized by them. He wondered
what it was like to be a swan. He wondered
how they managed to keep their feathers so
white.

He was sitting on a bench beside the
Thames, just outside Richmond. This was
where the river seemed to abandon London,
finally leaving the city behind it on the other
side of Richmond Bridge. Looking upstream,
Alex could see fields and woodland, absurdly

438/464
green, sprawled out in the heat of the Eng-
lish summer.

An au pair, pushing a pram, walked past
on the towpath. She noticed Alex, and al-
though her expression didn’t change, her
hands tightened on the pram and she very
slightly quickened her pace. Alex knew that
he looked terrible, like something out of one
of those posters put out by the local council.
Alex Rider, fourteen, in need of fostering.
His last fight with Damian Cray had left its
marks. But this time it was more than cuts
and bruises. They would fade like others had
faded before. This time he had seen his
whole life bend out of shape.

He couldn’t stop thinking about Yassen
Gregorovich. Two weeks had gone by but he
was still waking up in the middle of the
night, reliving the final moments on Air
Force One. His father had been a contract
killer, murdered by the very people who had
now taken over his own life. It couldn’t be

439/464
true. Yassen must have been lying, trying to
wound Alex in revenge for what had
happened between them. Alex wanted to be-
lieve it. But he had looked into the dying
man’s eyes and had seen no deceit, only a
strange sort of tenderness – and a desire for
the truth to be known.

Go to Venice. Find Scorpia. Find your

destiny…

It seemed to Alex that his only destiny was
to be lied to and manipulated by adults who
cared nothing about him. Should he go to
Venice? How would he find Scorpia? For that
matter, was Scorpia a person or a place? Alex
watched the swans, wishing they could give
him an answer. But they just drifted on the
water, ignoring him.

A shadow fell across the bench. Alex
looked up and felt a fist close tightly inside
his stomach. Mrs Jones was standing over
him. The MI6 agent was dressed in grey silk
trousers with a matching jacket that hung

440/464
down to her knees, almost like a coat. There
was a silver pin in her lapel but no other jew-
ellery. It seemed strange for her to be out
here, in the sun. He didn’t want to see her.
Along with Alan Blunt, she was the last per-
son Alex wanted to see.

“May I join you?” she asked.
“It seems you already have,” Alex said.
She sat down next to him.
“Have you been following me?” Alex
asked. He wondered how she had known he
would be here and it occurred to him that he
might have been under round-the-clock sur-
veillance for the past fortnight. It wouldn’t
have surprised him.

“No. Your friend – Jack Starbright – told

me you’d be here.”

“I’m meeting someone.”

441/464
“Not until twelve. Jack came in to see me,
Alex. You should have reported to Liverpool
Street by now. We need to debrief you.”

“There’s no point reporting to Liverpool
Street,” Alex said bitterly. “There’s nothing
there, is there? Just a bank.”

Mrs Jones understood. “That was wrong of

us,” she said.

Alex turned away.
“I know you don’t want to talk to me,
Alex,” Mrs Jones continued. “Well, you don’t
have to. But will you please just listen?”

She looked anxiously at him. He said noth-

ing. She went on.

“It’s true that we didn’t believe you when
you came to us – and of course we were
wrong. We were stupid. But it just seemed so
incredible that a man like Damian Cray
could be a threat to national security. He was
rich and he was eccentric; nevertheless, he

442/464
was only a pop star with attitude. That was
what we thought.

“But if you think we ignored you com-
pletely, Alex, you’re wrong. Alan and I have
different ideas about you. To be honest, if it
had been my choice, we’d never have got you
involved in the first place … not even in that
business with the Stormbreakers. But that’s
not the issue here.” She took a deep breath.
“After you had gone, I decided to take anoth-
er look at Damian Cray. There wasn’t a great
deal I could do without the right authority,
but I had him watched and all his move-
ments were reported back to me.

“I heard you were at Hyde Park, in that
dome when the Gameslayer was launched. I
also got a police report on the woman – the
journalist – who was killed. It just seemed
like an unfortunate coincidence. Then I was
told there had been an incident in Paris: a
photographer and his assistant killed. Mean-
while Damian Cray was in Holland, and the

443/464
next thing I knew, the Dutch police were
screaming about some sort of high-speed
chase in Amsterdam: cars and motorbikes
chasing a boy on a bicycle. Of course, I knew
it was you. But I still had no idea what was
going on.

“And then your friend, Sabina, disap-
peared at Whitchurch Hospital. That really
got the alarm bells ringing. I know. You’re
probably thinking we were absurdly slow,
and you’re right. But every intelligence ser-
vice in the world is the same. When they act,
they’re efficient. But often they get started
too late.

“That was the case here. By the time we
came to bring you in, you were already with
Cray, in Wiltshire. We spoke to your house-
keeper, Jack. Then we went straight to his
house. But we missed you again and this
time we had no idea where you’d gone. Now
we know, of course. Air Force One! The CIA
have been going crazy. Alan Blunt was called

444/464
in to see the prime minister last week. It may
well be that he is forced to resign.”

“Well, that breaks my heart,” Alex said.
Mrs Jones ignored this. “Alex … what
you’ve been through … I know this has been
very difficult for you. You were on your own,
and that should never have happened. But
the fact is, you have saved millions of lives.
Whatever you’re feeling now, you have to re-
member that. It might even be true to say
that you saved the world. God knows what
the consequences would have been if Cray
had succeeded. Anyway, the president of the
United States would very much like to meet
you. So, for that matter, would the prime
minister. And for what it’s worth, you’ve
even been invited to the Palace, if you want
to go. Of course, nobody else knows about
you. You’re still classified. But you should be
proud of yourself. What you did was …
amazing.”

445/464
“What happened to Henryk?” Alex asked.
The question took Mrs Jones by surprise, but
it was the only thing he didn’t know. “I just
wondered,” he said.

“He’s dead,” Mrs Jones said. “He was
killed when the plane crashed. He broke his
neck.”

“Well, that’s that then.” Alex turned to her.

“Can you go now?”

“Jack is worried about you, Alex. So am I.
It may be that you need help coming to
terms with what happened. Maybe some sort
of therapy.”

“I don’t want therapy. I just want to be left

alone.”

“All right.”
Mrs Jones stood up. She made one last at-
tempt to read him before she left. This was
the fourth occasion she had met Alex at the
end of an assignment. Each time she had
known that he must have been, in some way,

446/464
damaged. But this time something worse had
happened. She knew there was something
Alex wasn’t telling her.

And then, on an impulse, she said, “You
were on the plane with Yassen when he was
shot. Did he say anything before he died?”

“What do you mean?”
“Did he talk to you?”
Alex looked her straight in the eye. “No.

He never spoke.”

Alex watched her leave. So it was true what
Yassen had said. Her last question had
proved it. He knew who he was.

The son of a contract killer.

*

*

*

Sabina was waiting for him under the bridge.
He knew that this was going to be a brief
meeting. There was nothing really left to say.

“How are you?” she asked.
“I’m OK. How’s your dad?”
“He’s a lot better.” She shrugged. “I think

447/464

he’s going to be fine.”

“And he’s not going to change his mind?”
“No, Alex. We’re leaving.”
Sabina had told him on the phone the
night before. She and her parents were leav-
ing the country. They wanted to be on their
own, to give her father time to recover fully.
They had decided it would be easier for him
to begin a new life and had chosen San Fran-
cisco. Edward had been offered a job by a big
newspaper there. And there was more good
news. He was writing a book: the truth about
Damian Cray. It was going to make him a
fortune.

“When do you go?” Alex asked.
“Tuesday.” Sabina brushed something out
of her eye and Alex wondered if it might have

448/464
been a tear. But when she looked at him
again, she was smiling. “Of course, we’ll keep
in touch,” she said. “We can email. And you
know you can always come out if you want a
holiday.”

“As long as it’s not like the last one,” Alex

said.

“It’ll be weird going to an American
school…” Sabina broke off. “You were fant-
astic on the plane, Alex,” she said suddenly.
“I couldn’t believe how brave you were.
When Cray was telling you all those crazy
things, you didn’t even seem scared of him.”
She stopped. “Will you work for MI6 again?”
she asked.

“No.”
“Do you think they’ll leave you alone?”
“I don’t know, Sabina. It was my uncle’s
fault, really. He started all this years ago and
now I’m stuck with it.”

449/464
“I still feel ashamed about not believing
you.” Sabina sighed. “And I understand now
what you must have been going through.
They made me sign the Official Secrets Act.
I’m not allowed to tell anyone about you.” A
pause. “I’ll never forget you,” she said.

“I’ll miss you, Sabina.”
“But we’ll see each other again. You can
come to California. And I’ll let you know if
I’m ever in London…”

“That’s good.”
She was lying. Somehow Alex knew that
this was more than goodbye, that the two of
them would never see each other again.
There was no reason for it. That was just the
way it was going to be.

She put her arms around him and kissed

him.

“Goodbye, Alex,” she said.

450/464
He watched her walk out of his life. Then
he turned and followed the river, past the
swans and off into the countryside. He didn’t
stop. Nor did he look back.

Anthony Horowitz is one of the
most popular and prolific children’s writers working
today, and in 2003 he was delighted to win the Red
House Children’s Book Award for Skeleton Key, as it
was voted for entirely by children; Stormbreaker was
shortlisted for the same award in 2000 and Point
Blanc in 2001. His other titles for Walker Books in-
clude the hugely successful Diamond Brothers series,
Groosham Grange
sequel Return to
Groosham Grange, The Devil and His Boy, The
Switch and Granny.

and its

Anthony writes extensively for TV, with pro-
grammes including Midsomer Murders, Poirot and
the hugely popular drama series Foyle’s War, which
won the Lew Grade Audience Award in 2003. He is
married to television producer Jill Green and lives in
north London with his two sons, Nicholas and Cassi-
an, and their dog, Loopy.

452/464
You can find out more about Anthony Horow-
itz and his books by visiting his website, at

www.anthonyhorowitz.com

455/464

EAGLE STRIKE

457/464
Alex Rider’s fourth explosive adventure features all
the trademark action, gadgets and twists to be expec-
ted from Anthony Horowitz. However, this time he
has upped the stakes. “Although Alex is still fourteen,
he is definitely growing up fast. This book is more
personal, with more at stake for Alex. And the last
chapters include a revelation that may take many
readers by surprise.”

“Horowitz hasn’t exhausted his inventiveness yet!”

The Sunday Times Culture magazine

“Even more action-packed, intense and thrilling.

More please.”

School Librarian

“An ingenious, fast-paced action adventure.”

Books for Keeps

“Every bored schoolboy’s fantasy, only a thousand
times funnier, slicker and more exciting … genius.”

The Independent on Sunday

“Horowitz is pure class, stylish but action-packed …
being James Bond in miniature is way cooler than be-

ing a wizard.”

The Daily Mirror

“Brings new meaning to the phrase ‘action-packed’.”

The Sunday Times

“Horowitz will grip you with suspense, daring and

cheek – and that’s just the first page! …

Prepare for action scenes as fast as a movie.”

The Times

459/464

“The perfect hero … genuine 21st century stuff.”

The Daily Telegraph

“Done with enormous style, fun and suspense.

Wannabe James Bonds will be completely hooked and

eager for more.”
The Guardian

“Adults as well as kids will be hooked on the adven-
tures of Alex Rider … Harry Potter with attitude.”

Daily Express

For MG

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and in-
cidents are either the product of the author’s imagination
or, if real, are used fictitiously. All statements, activities,

stunts, descriptions, information and material of any other
kind contained herein are included for entertainment pur-
poses only and should not be relied on for accuracy or rep-

licated as they may result in injury.

First published 2003 by Walker Books Ltd

87 Vauxhall Walk, London SE11 5HJ

This edition published 2005

8 10 9 7

Text © 2003 Anthony Horowitz
Cover design by Walker Books Ltd

Alex Rider™ & Boy with Torch Logo™
© 2003 Stormbreaker Productions Ltd

The right of Anthony Horowitz to be identified as author of
this work has been asserted by him in accordance with the

Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988

462/464

This book has been typeset in Officina Sans

Printed in the UK by Clays Ltd, St Ives plc

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced,
transmitted or stored in an information retrieval system in
any form or by any means, graphic, electronic or mechanic-
al, including photocopying, taping and recording, without

prior written permission from the publisher.

British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data: a catalogue

record for this book is available from the British Library

ISBN 978-1-84428-095-7

www.walkerbooks.co.uk

@Created by PDF to ePub

