FORCE THREE

The bomb had been timed to go off at exactly
half past three.

Strangely, the man it had been designed to
kill probably knew more about bombs and
terrorism than anyone else in the world. He
had even written books on the subject. Look-
ing After Number One: Fifty Ways to Protect
Yourself at Home and Abroad might not be
the snappiest of titles, but the book had sold
twenty thousand copies in America, and it
was said that the president himself kept a
copy by his bed. The man did not think of
himself as a target, but even so he was al-
ways careful. As he often joked, it would be
bad for business if he was blown up crossing
the street.

His name was Max Webber, and he was
short and plump with tortoise-shell glasses
and jet-black hair that was actually dyed. He

3/539
told people that he had once been in the SAS,
which was true. What he didn’t tell them was
that he had been dropped after his first tour
of duty. In his forties he had opened a train-
ing centre in London, advising rich business-
men on how to look after themselves. He had
become a writer and a journalist, frequently
appearing on television to discuss interna-
tional security.

And now he was the guest speaker at the
fourth International Security Conference, be-
ing held at the Queen Elizabeth Hall on the
south bank of the Thames in London. The
whole building had been cordoned off.

Helicopters had been flying overhead all
morning and police with sniffer dogs had
been waiting in the foyer. Briefcases, camer-
as and all electronic devices had been forbid-
den inside the main hall, and delegates had
been made to pass through a rigorous
screening system before being allowed in.
More than eight hundred men and women

4/539
from seventeen countries had turned up.
Among them were diplomats, businessmen,
senior politicians, journalists and members
of various security services. They had to feel
safe.

Alan Blunt and Mrs Jones were both in the
audience. As the head and deputy head of
MI6 Special Operations, it was their respons-
ibility to keep up with the latest develop-
ments, although as far as Blunt was con-
cerned, the whole thing was a waste of time.
There were security conferences all the time
in every major city but they never achieved
anything. The experts talked. The politicians
lied. The press wrote it all down. And then
everyone went home and nothing changed.
Alan Blunt was bored. He looked half asleep.

At exactly two fifteen, Max Webber began to
speak.

He was dressed in an expensive suit and tie
and spoke slowly, his clipped voice full of

5/539
authority. He had notes in front of him but
he referred to them only occasionally, his
eyes fixed on the audience, speaking directly
to each one of them. In a glass-fronted pro-
jection room overlooking the stage, nine
translators spoke quietly into microphones,
just a second or two behind. Here and there
in the audience, men and women could be
seen with one hand pressed against their
earpiece, concentrating on what was being
said.

Webber turned a page. “I am often asked
which is the most dangerous terrorist group
in the world. The answer is not what you
might expect. It is a group that you may not
know. But I can assure you that it is one you
should fear, and I wish to speak briefly about
it now.”

He pressed a button on his lectern and two
words appeared, projected onto a giant
screen behind him.

6/539

FORCE THREE

In the fifth row, Blunt opened his eyes and
turned to Mrs Jones. He looked puzzled. She
shook her head briefly. Both of them were
suddenly alert.

“They call themselves Force Three,” Webber
went on. “The name refers to the fact that the
earth is the third planet from the sun. These
people wouldn’t describe themselves as ter-
rorists. They would probably prefer you to
think of them as eco-warriors, fighting to
protect the earth from the evils of pollution.
Broadly speaking, they’re protesting against
climate change, the destruction of the rain-
forests, the use of nuclear power, genetic en-
gineering and the growth of multinational
business. All very commendable, you might
think. Their agenda is similar to that of
Greenpeace. The difference is that
these
people are fanatics. They will kill anyone
who gets in their way; they have already
killed many times. They claim to respect the

7/539
planet but they have no respect at all for hu-
man life.”

Webber clicked again and a photograph
flashed up on the screen. There was a stir in
the auditorium as the audience examined it.
At first sight, they seemed to be looking at a
picture of a globe. Then they saw that it was
a globe sitting on a pair of shoulders. Finally
they realized it was a man. He had a very
round
completely
shaven—including the eyebrows. And there
was a map of the world tattooed on his skin.
England and France covered his left eye.
Newfoundland poked out over his right. Ar-
gentina floated around one side of his neck.
A gasp of revulsion spread around the room.
The man was a freak.

which

head

was

“This is the commanding officer of Force
Three,” Webber explained. “As you can see,
he cares about the planet so much, he’s
rather let it go to his head.

8/539
“His name—or at least the name that he goes
by—is Kaspar. Very little is known about
him. It is thought he might be French, but we
don’t even know for certain where he was
born. Nor do we know when he acquired
these tattoos. But I can tell you that Kaspar
has been very busy in the last six months. He
was responsible for the assassination of Mar-
jorie Schultz, a journalist living in Berlin, in
June; her only crime was to write an article
criticizing Force Three. He planned the kid-
napping and murder of two members of the
Atomic Energy Commission in Toronto. He
has organized explosions in six countries, in-
cluding Japan and New Zealand. He des-
troyed a car manufacturing plant in Dakota.
And I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen,
he enjoys his work. Whenever possible, Kas-
par likes to press the button himself.

“In my view, Kaspar is now the most danger-
ous man alive, for the simple reason that he
believes the whole world is with him. And in

9/539
a sense he’s right. I’m sure there are many
people in this room who believe in protecting
the environment. The trouble is, he would
kill every single one of you if he thought it
would help him achieve his aims. That is why
I’m issuing this warning.

“Find Kaspar. Find Force Three before they
can do any more harm. Because with every
day that passes, I believe they are becoming
a more serious and deadly threat.”

Webber paused as he turned another page of
his notes. When he began speaking again,
the subject had changed. Twenty minutes
later, at exactly three o’clock, he finished.
There was polite applause.

Coffee and biscuits were being served in the
foyer after the session ended, but Webber
wasn’t staying. He shook hands briefly with a
diplomat he knew and exchanged a few
words with some journalists, then moved on.
He was heading towards the auditorium exit

10/539
when he found his way blocked by a man and
a woman.

They were an unlikely pair. There was no
way he would have mistaken them for hus-
band and wife, even though they were about
the same age. The woman was thin with
short black hair. The man was shorter and
entirely grey. There was nothing interesting
about him at all.

“Alan Blunt!” Webber smiled and nodded.
“Mrs Jones!”

Very few people in the world would have re-
cognized these two individuals, but Webber
knew them instantly.

“We enjoyed your talk, Mr Webber,” Blunt
said, although there was little enthusiasm in
his voice.

“Thank you.”

“We were particularly interested in your
comments concerning Force Three.”

11/539

“You know about them, of course?”

The question was directed at Blunt, but it
was Mrs Jones who answered. “We’ve heard
about them, certainly,” she replied. “But the
fact is, we know very little about them. Six
months ago, as far as we can see, they didn’t
even exist.”

“That’s
recently.”

right. They were founded very

“You seem to know a lot about them, Mr
Webber. We’d be interested to learn where
you got your information.”

Webber smiled a second time. “You know I
can’t possibly reveal my sources, Mrs Jones,”
he said lightly.

Suddenly he was serious. “But I find it very
worrying that our country’s security services
should be so ignorant. I thought you were
meant to be protecting us.”

12/539
“That’s why we’re talking to you now,” Mrs
Jones countered. “If you know something, I
think you should tell us—”

Webber interrupted her. “I think I’ve told
you quite enough. If you want to know more,
I suggest you come to my next lecture. I’ll be
talking in Stockholm a couple of weeks from
now, and it may well be that I shall have fur-
ther information about Force Three then. If
so, I’ll be happy to share it with you. And
now, if you don’t mind, I’ll wish you good
day.”

Webber pushed his way between them and
headed towards the cloakroom. He couldn’t
help smiling to himself. It had gone per-
fectly—and meeting Alan Blunt and the
Jones woman had been an unexpected bo-
nus. He fumbled in his pocket and took out a
plastic disc which he handed to the cloak-
room attendant.

13/539
His mobile phone had been taken from him
when he went in: a security measure he him-
self had recommended in his book. Now it
was returned to him.

a

Ninety seconds later he emerged onto the
wide pavement in front of the river. It was
early October but the weather was still warm,
the afternoon sun turning the water a deep
blue. There were only
few people
around—mainly kids rattling back and forth
on their
still
checked them out, just to make sure that
none of them had any interest in him. He de-
cided to walk home instead of taking public
transport or hailing a taxi. That was
something else he’d written in his book. In
any major city, you’re always safer out in the
open, on your own two feet.

skateboards—but Webber

He had only taken a few steps when his mo-
bile rang, vibrating in his jacket pocket. He
dug it out.

14/539
Somewhere in the back of his mind he
seemed to recall that the phone had been
switched off when he handed it to the cloak-
room attendant. But he was feeling so
pleased with himself, with the way his speech
had gone, that he ignored this single whisper
of doubt.

It was twenty-nine minutes past three.

“Hello?”

“Mr Webber. I’m ringing to congratulate you.
It went very well.”

The voice was soft and somehow artificial. It
wasn’t an Englishman speaking.
It was
someone who had learnt the language very
carefully. The pronunciation was too deliber-
ate, too precise. There was no emotion in the
voice at all.

“You heard me?” Max Webber was still walk-
ing, speaking at the same time.

15/539
“Oh yes. I was in the audience. I am very
pleased.”

“Did you know that MI6 were there?”

“No.”

“I spoke to them afterwards. They were very
interested in what I had to say.” Webber
chuckled quietly.

“Maybe I should raise my price.”

“I think we’ll stick with our original agree-
ment,” the voice replied.

Max Webber shrugged. Two hundred and
fifty thousand pounds was still a great deal of
money. Paid into a secret bank account, it
would come tax-free, no questions asked.
And it had been such a simple thing to do.

A quarter of a million for just ten minutes’
work!

16/539
The man on the other end spoke again and
suddenly his voice was sad. “There is just one
thing that concerns me, Mr Webber…”

“What’s that?” Webber could hear something
else,
in the background. Some sort of
interference.

He pressed the phone more tightly against
his ear.

“In your speech today, you made an enemy
of Force Three. And as you yourself pointed
out, they are completely ruthless.”

“I don’t think either of us need worry about
Force Three.” Webber looked around to
make sure he wasn’t being overheard. “And I
think you should remember, my friend, I
served with the SAS. I know how to look
after myself.”

“Really?”

17/539
Was the voice mocking him? For reasons
Webber didn’t quite understand, he was be-
ginning to feel uneasy.

And the interference was getting louder; he
could hear it in his mobile phone. Some sort
of ticking.

“I’m not afraid of Force Three,” he blustered.
“I’m not afraid of anyone. Just make sure the
money reaches my account.”

“Goodbye, Mr Webber,” said the voice.

There was a click.

One second of silence.

Then the mobile phone exploded.

Max Webber had been holding it
tight
against his ear. If he heard the blast, he was
dead before it registered.

A couple of joggers were approaching from
the other direction, and they both screamed

18/539
as the thing that had just moments before
been a man toppled over into their path.

The explosion was surprisingly loud. It was
heard in the conference centre where deleg-
ates were still drinking coffee and congratu-
lating one another on their contributions.
They also heard the wail of the sirens as the
ambulance and police cars arrived shortly
afterwards.

Later that afternoon, Force Three called the
press and claimed responsibility for the
killing. Max Webber had declared war on
them, and for that reason he had to die. In
the same phone call they issued a stark
warning. They had already chosen their next
target. And they were planning something
the world would not forget.

THE BOY IN ROOM NINE

The nurse was
twenty-three years old,
blonde and nervous. This was only her
second week at St Dominic’s, one of Lon-
don’s most exclusive private hospitals. Rock
stars and television celebrities came here,
she had been told. There were also VIPs from
abroad. VIPs here meant very important pa-
tients. Even famous people get sick, and the
ones who wanted to recover in five-star com-
fort chose St Dominic’s. The surgeons and
therapists were world class. The hospital
food was so good that some patients had
been known to pretend they were ill so that
they could enjoy it for a while longer.

That evening, the nurse was making her way
down a wide, brightly lit corridor, carrying a
tray of medicines. She was wearing a freshly
laundered white dress. Her name—D.
MEACHER—was printed on a badge pinned

20/539
to her uniform. Several of the junior doctors
had already placed bets on which of them
would persuade her to go out with them first.

She stopped in front of an open door. Room
nine.

“Hello,” she said. “I’m Diana Meacher.”

“I’m looking forward to meeting you too,”
the boy in room nine replied.

Alex Rider was sitting up in bed, reading a
French textbook that he should have been
studying at school.

He was wearing pyjamas that had fallen
open at the neck and the nurse could just
make out the bandages criss-crossing his
chest. He was a very handsome boy, she
thought. He had fair hair and serious brown
eyes that looked as if they had seen too
much. She knew that he was only fourteen,
but he looked older. Pain had done that to
him. Nurse Meacher had read his medical

21/539
file and understood what he had been
through.

In truth, he should have been dead. Alex
Rider had been hit by a bullet fired from a
.22 rifle from a distance of almost seventy-
five metres. The sniper had been aiming for
his heart—and if the bullet had found its tar-
get, Alex would have had no chance of sur-
viving. But nothing is certain—not even
murder. A tiny movement had saved his life.
As he had come out of MI6’s headquarters
on Liverpool Street, he had stepped off the
pavement, his right foot carrying his body
down towards the level of the road. It was at
that exact moment that the bullet had hit
him, and instead of powering into his heart,
it had entered his body half a centimetre
higher, ricocheting off a rib and exiting hori-
zontally under his left arm.

The bullet had missed his vital heart struc-
tures, but even so it had done plenty of dam-
age, tearing through the subclavian artery,

22/539
which carries blood over the top of the lung
and into the arm. This was what Alex had felt
when he was hit. As blood had poured out of
the severed artery, filling the space between
the lung and the thoracic cage, he had found
himself unable to breathe. Alex could easily
have died from shock or loss of blood. If he
had been a man he almost certainly would
have. But the body of a child is different to
that of an adult. A young person’s artery will
automatically shut itself down if cut—doctors
can’t explain how or why—and this will limit
the amount of blood lost. Alex was uncon-
scious but he was still breathing,
four
minutes later, when the first ambulance
arrived.

There wasn’t much the paramedics could do:
IV fluids, oxygen and some gentle compres-
sion around the bullet’s point of entry. But
that was enough. Alex had been rushed to St
Dominic’s, where surgeons had removed the
bone fragments and put a graft on the artery.

23/539
He had been in the operating theatre two
and a half hours.

And now he was looking almost as if nothing
had happened. As the nurse came into the
room, he closed the book and settled back in-
to his pillows. Diana Meacher knew that this
was his last night in hospital. He had been
here for ten days and tomorrow he was going
home. She also knew that she wasn’t allowed
to ask too many questions. It was there in
large print on his file: PATIENT 9/75958
RIDER/ALEX: SPECIAL

STATUS (MISO). NO UNAUTHORIZED
VISITORS. NO PRESS. REFER ALL
ENQUIRIES TO DR

HAYWARD.

It was all very strange. She had been told she
would meet some interesting people at St
Dominic’s, and she had been required to sign
a confidentiality clause before she began
work. But she’d never expected anything like

24/539
this. MISO stood for Military Intelligence:
Special Operations. But what was the secret
service doing with a teenage boy? How had
Alex managed to get himself shot? And why
had there been two armed policemen sitting
outside his room for the first four days of his
stay? Diana tried to push these thoughts out
of her mind as she put the tray down. Maybe
she should have stuck with the NHS.

“How are you feeling?” she asked.

“I’m fine, thanks.”

“Looking forward to going home?”

“Yes.”

Diana realized she was staring at Alex and
turned her attention to the medicines. “Are
you in any pain?”

she asked. “Can I get you something to help
you sleep?”

“No, I’m all right.” Alex shook his head and
for a moment something flickered in his

25/539
eyes. The pain in his chest had slowly faded
but he knew it would never leave him com-
pletely. He could feel it now, vague and dis-
tant, like a bad memory. “Would you like me
to come back later?”

it’s all right, thanks.” He smiled. “I

“No,
don’t need anyone to tuck me in.”

Diana blushed. “That’s not what I meant,”
she said. “But if you need me, I’ll be just
down the hall. You can call me any time.”

“I might do that.”

The nurse picked up her tray and walked out
of the room. She left behind the scent of her
perfume—

heather and spring flowers—in the air. Alex
sniffed. It seemed to him that since his in-
jury, his senses had become more acute.

He reached for his French book,
then
changed his mind. To hell with it, he

26/539
thought. Irregular verbs could wait. It was
his own future that concerned him more.

He looked around at the neat, softly lit room
that tried hard to pretend it belonged to an
expensive hotel rather than a hospital. There
was a TV on a table in the corner, operated
by a remote control beside the bed.

A window looked out over a wide north Lon-
don street lined with trees. His room was on
the second floor, one of about a dozen ar-
ranged in a ring around a bright and modern
reception area. In the early days after his op-
eration, there had been flowers everywhere,
but Alex had asked for them to be taken
away. They’d reminded him of a funeral par-
lour and he had decided he preferred being
alive.

But there were still cards. He had received
more than twenty and he’d been surprised
how many people had heard that he’d been
hurt—and how many had sent a card. There

secretary; and several

27/539
had been a dozen from school: one from the
head; one from Miss Bedfordshire,
the
school
from his
friends. Tom Harris had sent him some pho-
tos taken on their trip to Venice and a note:
They told us it’s appendicitis but I bet it isn’t.
Get well soon anyway.

Tom was the only person at Brookland who
knew the truth about Alex.

Sabina Pleasure had somehow discovered he
was in hospital and had sent him a card from
San Francisco.

She was enjoying life in America but missed
England, she said. She was hoping to come
over for Christmas. Jack Starbright had sent
him the biggest card in the room and had fol-
lowed it up with chocolates, magazines and
energy drinks, visiting him twice a day.
There was even a card from the prime minis-
ter’s office—although it seemed the prime
minister had been too busy to sign it.

message

28/539
And there had been cards from MI6. One
from Mrs Jones, another from Alan Blunt (a
printed
single
word—BLUNT—signed in green ink as if it
were a memorandum not a get well card).
Alex had been surprised and pleased to re-
ceive a card from Wolf, the soldier he had
met while training with the SAS.

with

a

The postmark showed it had been mailed in
Baghdad. But his favourite had been sent by
Smithers. On the front was a teddy bear.
There was no message inside, but when Alex
opened the card,
the teddy bear’s eyes
blinked and it began to talk.

“Alex—very sorry to hear you’ve been hurt.”
The bear was speaking with Smithers’ voice.
“Hope you get better soon, old chap. Just
take it easy—I’m sure you deserve a rest. Oh,
and by the way, this card will self-destruct in
five seconds.”

29/539
Sure enough, to the horror of the nurses, the
card had immediately burst into flames.

As well as cards, there had been visitors. Mrs
Jones had been the first.

Alex had only just come round after surgery
when she appeared. He had never seen the
deputy head of Special Operations looking
quite so unsure of herself. She was wearing a
charcoal-grey raincoat which hung open to
reveal a dark suit underneath. Her hair was
wet
and
on her
shoulders.

raindrops

glistened

“I don’t quite know what to say to you, Alex,”
she began. She hadn’t asked him how she
was. She would have already got that from
the doctors. “What happened to you in Liver-
pool Street was an unforgivable lapse of se-
curity. Too many people know the location of
our headquarters. We’re going to stop using
the main entrance. It’s too dangerous.”

30/539
Alex shifted uncomfortably in the bed but
said nothing.

“Your condition is stable. I can’t tell you how
relieved I am personally. When I heard you’d
been shot, I…”

She stopped herself. Her black eyes looked
down, taking in the tubes and wires attached
to the boy lying in front of her, feeding into
his arm, nose, mouth and stomach. “I know
you can’t talk now,” she went on. “So I’ll be
brief.

“You are safe here. We’ve used St Dominic’s
before, and there are certain procedures be-
ing followed. There are guards outside your
room. There’ll be someone there twenty-four
hours a day as long as necessary.

“The shooting in Liverpool Street was repor-
ted in the press but your name was kept out
of it. Your age too.

31/539
The sniper who fired at you had taken a posi-
tion on the roof opposite. We’re still investig-
ating how he managed to get up there
without being detected—and I’m afraid we’ve
been unable to find him. But right now, your
safety is our primary concern. We can talk to
Scorpia. As you know, we’ve had dealings
with them in the past. I’m sure I can per-
suade them to leave you alone. You des-
troyed their operation, Alex, and they pun-
ished you. But enough is enough.”

She stopped. Alex’s heart monitor pulsed
softly in the dim light.

“After

you’ve

everything

“Please try not to think too badly of us,” she
added.
been
through—Scorpia, your father… I will never
forgive myself for what happened. I some-
times think it was wrong of us ever to get you
involved in the first place. But we can talk
about that another time.”

32/539
Alex was too weak to reply. He watched as
Mrs Jones got up and left, and he guessed
that Scorpia must have decided to leave him
alone, because a few days later the armed
guards outside his room quietly disappeared.

And now, in just over twelve hours, he would
be out of here too. Jack had already been
planning the weeks ahead. She wanted to
take him on holiday to Florida or perhaps
the Caribbean. It was October and the sum-
mer was definitely over, leaves falling and
cold breezes coming in with the night. Jack
wanted Alex to rest and regain his strength
in the sun—but secretly he wasn’t so sure. He
picked up the textbook again. He never
thought he’d hear himself say this, but the
truth was he just wanted to go back to
school. He wanted to be ordinary again.
Scorpia had sent him a simple, unforgettable
message. Being a spy could get him killed. Ir-
regular verbs were less dangerous.

33/539
There was a movement at the door and a boy
looked in. “Hi, Alex.”

The boy had a strange accent—Eastern
European, possibly Russian. He was four-
teen, with short blond hair and light blue
eyes. His face was thin, his skin pale. He was
wearing pyjamas and a large dressing gown
which made him seem smaller than he was.
He was staying in the room next door to Alex
and really had been treated for appendicitis,
with complications. His name was Paul
Drevin—the surname was somehow famili-
ar—but Alex didn’t know anything more
about him. The two of them had spoken
briefly a few times.

They were nearly the same age, and the only
teenagers on the corridor.

Alex raised a hand in greeting. “Hi.”

“I hear you’re getting out of here tomorrow,”
Paul said.

34/539

“Yes. How about you?”

“Another day, worst luck.” He hovered in the
doorway. He seemed to want to come in, but
at the same time something held him back.
“I’ll be glad to leave,” he admitted. “I want to
go home.”

“Where is home?” Alex asked.

“I’m not sure.” Paul was completely serious.
“We live in London a lot of the time. But my
father’s always moving. Moscow, New York,
the South of France … he’s been too busy
even to come in and see me. And we have so
many houses, I sometimes wonder which is
my home.”

“Where do you go to school?” Alex had
picked up on the mention of Moscow and as-
sumed that Paul must be Russian.

“I don’t go to school; I have tutors.” Paul
shrugged. “It’s difficult. My life’s sort of
weird, because of my father. Because of

35/539
everything. Anyway, I’m jealous of you get-
ting out before me. Good luck.”

“Thanks.”

Paul hesitated a fraction longer, then left.
Alex gazed thoughtfully at the empty door-
way. Perhaps his father was some sort of
politician or banker. On the few occasions
they had spoken he’d got the impression that
the other boy was friendless. He wondered
how many kids were admitted into this hos-
pital who had fathers willing to spend thou-
sands to make them better, but who had no
time to visit them while they were there.

It was nine o’clock. Alex flicked through the
television channels, but there was nothing
on. He wished now that he had accepted the
sleeping pill from the nurse. A little sip of
water and he would have been out for the
night. And out of the hospital the next day.
Alex was looking forward to that more than
anything. He needed to start his life again.

36/539
He watched half an hour of a comedy that
didn’t make him laugh. Then he switched off
the television, turned off the light and curled
up in the bed one last time. He rather wished
Diana Meacher had come back to see him.
Briefly he remembered the scent of her per-
fume. And then he was asleep. But not for
long.

The next thing Alex knew, it was half past
twelve. There was a clock beside the bed, its
numerals glowing in the dark. He woke up
reluctantly, trying to climb back down into
the pit from which he had come. The truth
was, it was difficult to sleep when he had
done nothing to make him tired. All day he’d
been lying there, breathing in the clean, con-
ditioned atmosphere that at St Dominic’s
passed for air.

He lay in the semi-darkness, wondering what
to do. Then he got up and slipped into his
dressing gown.

37/539
This was the worst thing about being in hos-
pital. There was no way out, nowhere to go.
Alex couldn’t get used to it. Every night for a
week, he’d woken up at about the same time,
and finally he’d decided to break the rules
and escape from the sterile box that was his
room. He wanted to be outside. He needed
the smell of London, the noise of the traffic,
the feeling that he still belonged to the real
world.

He put on a pair of slippers and went out.
The lights had been dimmed, casting no
more than a discreet glow outside his room.
There was a computer screen gleaming be-
hind the nurses’ station but no sign of Diana
Meacher or anyone else. Alex took a step for-
ward. There are few places more silent than a
hospital in the middle of the night and he felt
almost afraid to move, as if he was breaking
some sort of unwritten law between the
healthy and the sick. But he knew he would
just lie awake for hours if he stayed in bed.

38/539
He had nothing to worry about. Mrs Jones
was certain that Scorpia was no longer a
threat. He was almost tempted to leave the
hospital and catch the night bus home.

Of course, that was out of the question. He
couldn’t go that far. But he was still determ-
ined to reach the main reception with its
sliding glass doors and—just beyond—a real
street with people and cars and noise and
dirt. By day, three receptionists answered the
phones and dealt with enquiries. After eight
o’clock there was just one. Alex had already
met him—a cheerful Irishman called Conor
Hackett. The two of them had quickly be-
come friends.

Conor was sixty-five and had spent most of
his life in Dublin. He’d taken this job to help
support his nine grandchildren. After they’d
talked a while, Alex had persuaded Conor to
let him go outside, and he had spent a happy
fifteen minutes on the pavement in front of
the main entrance, watching the passing

39/539
traffic and breathing in the night air. He
would do the same again now. Maybe he
could stretch it to half an hour.

Conor would complain; he would threaten to
call the nurse. But Alex was sure he would let
him have his way.

He avoided the lift, afraid that the noise of
the bell as it arrived would give him away.
He walked down the stairs to the first floor,
and continued along a corridor. From here
he could look down on the polished floor of
reception and the glass entrance doors. He
could see Conor sitting behind his desk,
reading a magazine.

Even down here the lights were dimmed. It
was as if the hospital wanted to remind visit-
ors where they were the moment they came
in.

Conor turned a page. Alex was about to walk
down the last few stairs, when suddenly the
front doors slid open.

40/539
Alex was both startled and a little embar-
rassed. He didn’t want to be caught here in
his dressing gown and pyjamas. At the same
time, he wondered who could possibly be vis-
iting St Dominic’s at this time of night.

He took a step back, disappearing into the
shadows. Now he could watch everything
that was happening, unobserved.

Four men came in. They were in their late
twenties, and all looked fit. The leader was
wearing a combat jacket and a Che Guevara
T-shirt. The others were dressed in jeans,
hooded sweatshirts and trainers. From
where he was hiding, Alex couldn’t make out
their faces very clearly, but already he knew
there was something strange about them.
The way they moved was somehow too fast,
too energetic. People move more cautiously
when they come into a hospital. After all,
nobody actually wants to be there.

41/539
“Hey—how are you doing?” the first man
asked. The words cut through the gloom. He
had a cheerful, cultivated voice.

“How can I help you?” the receptionist
asked. He sounded as puzzled as Alex felt.

“We’d like to visit one of your patients,” the
man explained. “I wonder if you can tell us
where he is.”

“I’m very sorry.” Alex couldn’t see Conor’s
face, but he could imagine the smile in his
voice. “You can’t visit anyone now. It’s al-
most one o’clock! You’ll have to come back
tomorrow.”

“I don’t think you understand.”

Alex felt the first stirrings of nervousness. A
note of menace had crept into the man’s
voice. And there was something sinister
about the way the other three men were posi-
tioned. They were spread out between the re-
ceptionist and the main entrance. It was as if

42/539
they didn’t want him to leave. Or anyone else
to enter.

“We want to see Paul Drevin.” Alex heard the
name with a shiver of disbelief. The boy in
the room next to his! Why would these men
want to see him so late at night? “What room
is he in?” the man in the combat jacket
asked.

Conor shook his head. “I can’t give you that
information,” he protested. “Come back to-
morrow and someone will be happy to help
you then.”

“We want to know now,” the man insisted.
He reached into his jacket and Alex felt the
floor sway beneath him as the man produced
a gun. It was equipped with a silencer. And it
was pointing at the receptionist’s head.

“What are you…?” Conor had gone rigid; his
voice had risen to a high-pitched squeak. “I
can’t tell you!” he exclaimed. “What are you
doing here? What do you want?”

43/539
“We want the room number of Paul Drevin.
If you don’t give it to me in the next three
seconds, I will pull the trigger and the only
part of this hospital you’ll ever need again
will be the morgue.”

“Wait!”

“One…”

“I don’t know where he is!”

“Two…”

Alex felt his chest hurting. He realized he
was holding his breath.

“All right! All right! Let me find it for you.”

The receptionist began to tap hurriedly at the
keyboard hidden below the top of his desk.
Alex heard the clatter of the keys.

“He’s on the second floor! Room eight.”

“Thank you,” the man said, and shot him.

44/539
Alex heard the angry cough of the bullet as it
was spat out by the silencer. He saw a black
spray in front of the receptionist’s forehead.
Conor was thrown backwards, his hands
raised briefly.

Nobody moved.

“Room eight. Second floor,” one of the men
muttered.

“I told you he was in room eight,” the first
man said.

“Then why did you ask?”

“I just wanted to be sure.”

One of them sniggered.

“Let’s go and get him,” another said.

Alex was frozen to the spot. He could feel his
wound throbbing angrily. This couldn’t be
happening, could it? But it was happening.
He had seen it for himself.

The four men moved.

Alex turned and ran.

45/539

EMERGENCY
TREATMENT

Alex took the stairs two at a time, a hundred
different
thoughts tumbling through his
mind. Who were the four men and why were
they here? What did they want with Paul?
The name Drevin meant something to him,
but this wasn’t the time to work out what it
was. What could he do to stop them?

He came to a fire alarm in a red box on the
wall and stopped beside it. For a few, pre-
cious seconds his fist hovered over the glass.
But he knew that setting off the alarm would
do no good. For the moment, surprise was all
he had on his side. The fire alarm would only
tell the men that they had been seen, and
then they would go about their work all the
faster, killing or kidnapping the boy long be-
fore the police or fire brigade arrived.

47/539
Alex didn’t want to confront the four men on
his own. He was desperately tempted to call
for help. But he knew it would come too late.

He continued up the stairs, one small piece
of knowledge spurring him on. The men had
shown themselves to be single-minded and
ruthless. But they had already made one
mistake.

When they had set off, they had been moving
in the direction of the lift, and Alex knew
something they didn’t. The lifts at St Domin-
ic’s were the original bed lifts, almost twenty
years old. They were designed to carry pa-
tients up from the operating theatres on the
first floor and had to stop without even the
slightest shudder. For this reason they were
very, very slow. It would take Alex less than
twenty seconds to reach the second floor; it
would take the men almost two minutes.
That gave him one minute and forty seconds
to do something. But what?

48/539
He burst through the doors and into the
nurses’ area in front of his room. There was
still nobody around, which was strange. Per-
haps the four men had created some sort of
diversion. That would make sense. They
could have got rid of the nurse with a single
phone call and right now she could be any-
where in the hospital. Alex stood panting in
the half-light, trying to get his brain to work.
He could imagine the lift making its way inch
by inch towards him.

He was painfully aware of the unevenness of
the competition. The men were professional
killers. Alex would have known that even if
he hadn’t seen them murder the night recep-
tionist. It was obvious from their body lan-
guage, the way they smiled, the conversation
he’d overheard. Killing was second nature to
them. Alex couldn’t possibly fight them. He
was unarmed. Worse, he was in pyjamas and
slippers with a chest wound held together by
stitches and bandages. He had never been

49/539
more helpless. Once he was seen, he would
be finished. He didn’t stand a chance.

And yet he had to do something. He thought
about the strange, lonely boy in the room
next to his. Paul Drevin was only just four-
teen—eight months younger
than Alex.
These men had come for him. Alex couldn’t
let them take him.

He looked at the open door of his own
room—number nine. It was exactly opposite
the lift, and was the first thing the men
would see when they stepped out. Paul Drev-
in was asleep in the next room. His door was
closed. Their names were visible in the half-
light: ALEX RIDER and PAUL DREVIN.
They were printed on plastic strips that fitted
into a slot on each door. Underneath, also on
strips, were the room numbers.

Suddenly, out of nowhere, a plan started to
form in Alex’s mind. Wondering if he had left
himself enough time, he darted forward and

50/539
snatched a teaspoon from a cup and saucer a
nurse had left on the desk. Using the spoon
handle, he prised his name and room num-
ber out of their slots, then did the same to
the next door. It took another few seconds to
snap the plastic strips back into place. Now it
was Alex Rider who was asleep in room nine.
The door to room eight was open and Paul
Drevin wasn’t there.

Alex ran into his room, pulled open the cup-
board and grabbed a shirt and a pair of
jeans. He knew what he had done wasn’t
enough. If the men glanced at the doors
more than briefly, they would see the trick
that had been played, because the sequence
was wrong: six, seven, nine, eight, ten. Alex
had to make sure they didn’t have time to ex-
amine anything.

He had to make them come after him. He
didn’t dare get dressed in sight of the lift. He
hurried out with the clothes—past
the
nurses’ station, away from the two rooms. He

51/539
came to a corridor leading off at ninety de-
grees. It ran about twenty metres to a pair of
swing doors and another staircase. There
was an open store cupboard on one side of
the corridor and next to it a trolley with
some sort of machine: low and flat with a
series of buttons and a narrow, rectangular
TV screen that
looked like it had been
squashed. Alex recognized the machine.
There were also two oxygen cylinders. He
could feel his heart pounding underneath the
bandages. The silence in the hospital was un-
nerving. How much time had passed since
Conor had been killed?

the pyjamas and
Swiftly he stripped off
pulled on his own clothes. It felt good to be
dressed again after ten long days and nights.
He was no longer a patient. He was begin-
ning to get his life back.

The lift doors opened, breaking the silence
with a metallic rattle. Alex watched the four
men walk out.

52/539
Quickly he summed them up. Two were
black, two white. They moved as a single
unit, as if they were used to working togeth-
er. He gave them names based on their ap-
pearances. The man who had shot Conor was
the leader. He had a broken nose that
seemed to split his face like a crack in a mir-
ror. Alex thought of him as Combat Jacket.
The next was thin, with crumpled cheeks and
orange-tinted glasses. Spectacles. The third
was short and muscular, and obviously spent
a serious amount of time at the gym. He had
a heavy dull metal watch on his wrist, and
that gave him his name: Steel Watch. The
last man was unshaven, with straggly black
hair. At some point he’d been to a bad dent-
ist, who had left his mark very visibly. He
would be Silver Tooth.

All four were moving quickly, impatient after
the long wait in the lift. This was the moment
of truth.

53/539
Combat Jacket registered the open door and
the empty bed inside. He read the name. At
that moment, Alex appeared, walking down
the corridor as if he had just been to the toi-
let and was returning to his room. He
stopped and gave a small gasp of surprise.
The men looked at him. And immediately
made the assumption that Alex had guessed
they would. Even if they knew what their tar-
get was supposed to look like, they couldn’t
see his face in the soft light. He was Paul
Drevin. Who else could he be? “Paul?” Com-
bat Jacket spoke the single word.

Alex nodded.

“We’re not going to hurt you. But you’re go-
ing to have to come with us.”

Alex took a step back. Combat Jacket took
out a gun. The same gun that he had used to
kill the night receptionist. Alex turned and
fled.

54/539
As his bare feet pounded on the hospital car-
pet, he was afraid that he had left it too late,
that he would feel the white heat of a bullet
between his shoulder blades. But the cor-
ridor was right in front of him. With a feeling
of relief, he threw himself round the corner.
Now he was out of sight.

The four men were slow to react. This was
the last thing they’d expected. Paul Drevin
should have been sound asleep in bed. But
he had seen them. He had run away. As one,
they surged forward. Their movements
seemed clumsy—they didn’t want to make
any noise—but they were still making fast
progress. They reached the corridor and saw
the swing doors ahead. One of the doors was
still closing. The boy had obviously passed
through seconds before. With Combat Jacket
in the lead, they pressed on. None of them
noticed the store cupboard on their left.
Combat Jacket pushed through the doors;
Steel Watch and Spectacles followed. Silver

55/539
Tooth was left behind—and that was when
Alex made his move.

Alex had run the full length of the corridor,
flung open the doors, then doubled back to
the store cupboard.

That was where he was now. Moving on tip-
toe, he slipped out. Now he was behind Sil-
ver Tooth. He was holding something in each
of his hands, a circular disc, padded, trailing
electric wires.

The machine he had seen on the trolley was a
Lifepak 300 defibrillator, a standard piece of
equipment in most British hospitals. Alex
had seen defibrillators often enough in tele-
vision dramas to know what they did and
how they worked. When a patient’s heart
stopped, the doctor would press the pads
against
their chest and use the electric
charge to bring them back to life. Alex had
conected up this defibrillator in the last
seconds before the lift arrived.
It was

56/539
designed to be easy to use and ready in an in-
stant; the batteries were always kept fully
charged. Gritting his teeth, he slammed the
pads against the neck of the man in front of
him and pressed the buttons. Silver Tooth
screamed and leapt high in the air as the
electric current coursed through him. He was
unconscious before he hit the floor.

The doors swung open again: Spectacles had
heard the scream. He came back, half
crouching, running forward, a knife in his
hand. His face was twisted in an ugly sneer
of anger. Something had gone wrong.

But how? Why hadn’t the boy been asleep?

He didn’t even make it halfway down the
corridor. The full force of a ten-kilogram
oxygen cylinder hit him right between the
legs. His face went mauve and he dropped
the knife. He tried to breathe, but oxygen
was the one thing he couldn’t
find. He
crumpled, eyes bulging.

57/539
Alex dropped the tank. It had taken all his
strength to swing it, and he ran a hand
across his chest, wondering if he had dam-
aged himself. But the stitches seemed to have
held.

Leaving the two unconscious men behind
him, he ran back past his room and over to
the main stairs. He heard the swing doors
crash against the wall as the others came
after him. At least he’d halved the opposi-
tion, even if it was going to be more difficult
from now on. The remaining two men knew
he was dangerous; they wouldn’t let them-
selves be surprised again. Alex considered
disappearing. There were dozens of places he
could hide. But that wasn’t the point. He
forced himself to slow down. He had to lead
them away from rooms eight and nine.

They saw him. He heard one of
them
swear—a single, taut whisper of pure hatred.
That was good. The angrier they were, the
more mistakes they would make. Alex ran

58/539
down the stairs. He felt dizzy and for a mo-
ment he thought he was going to pass out.
After spending so long in bed, his body
wasn’t ready for this.

His left arm was hurting too.

The arm reminded him where he was going.
The physio department was on the first floor.
Alex had been there many times; it had been
a necessary part of his treatment.

The bullet that had sliced through his artery
had also done serious damage to his brachial
plexus. This was a complicated network of
spinal nerves leading into his left arm. The
doctors had warned him that the arm would
hurt; there would be stiffness and pins and
needles—perhaps for the rest of his life. But
once again Alex had youth on his side. After
a few days of therapy, much of the pain had
subsided. In that time, he had been put
through a series of exercises—static resist-
ance, stretching, reaction and speed work. By

59/539
the end of the week, Alex had got to know the
physio department better than any other de-
partment in the hospital. That was why he
was heading there now.

He half stumbled through the doors and
stood for a moment, catching his breath.
First, there were two cubicles with beds
where patients would lie while they were put
through a series of exercises. A human skel-
eton—very realistic but
in fact made of
plastic—hung on a metal frame opposite. The
corridor dog-legged, then continued past a
series of doors and cupboards to another
pair of swing doors at the far end.

Alex knew exactly what he would find in the
cupboards. One of the rooms leading off the
corridor was a fully equipped gym with cyc-
ling machines, dumb-bells, heavy medicine
balls and treadmills.

The cupboards contained more equipment,
including chest expanders and rolls of

60/539
elastic. Each day, the physiotherapist had cut
off a length of elastic and given it to Alex to
use in simple stretching exercises.

These had been gentle at first but had be-
come more strenuous, using thicker lengths
of elastic, as he healed.

He opened the first cupboard. He had
worked out what he was going to do. The
question was the same as before. Had he left
himself enough time?

Forty seconds later, the doors opened and
Combat Jacket came in. He was breathing
heavily. He was meant to be in command of
this operation, and one day he would have to
answer for it. Two of his men were lying un-
conscious upstairs—one of
them electro-
cuted. And what made it worse—what made
it unbelievable—

was that both had been taken out by a kid!
They had been told it would be simple.
Maybe that was why they had made so many

61/539
mistakes. Well, he wasn’t going to make any
more.

He crept
forward slowly, his fist curled
around an ugly, square-nosed handgun. It
was an FP9, a single-action pistol manufac-
tured in Hungary, one of dozens coming in
illegally from Eastern Europe. There were no
lights on in this part of the hospital. The only
illumination came
from the moonlight
streaming in through the windows. He
looked to one side and saw the skeleton
standing there like something out of a cheap
fairground ride. The hollow eye sockets
seemed to be staring at him. Warning him?
The man looked away in disgust. He wasn’t
going to let it give him the creeps.

He glanced into the two cubicles. The cur-
tains were drawn back and it was obvious the
boy wasn’t hiding there. Combat Jacket went
past the skeleton and turned the corner. Now
he found himself
looking down the full
length of the corridor. It was very dark but as

62/539
his eyes adjusted, he made out a shape
standing at the far end. He smiled. It was the
boy! He seemed to be holding something
against his chest. What was it?

Some sort of ball. Well, this time he’d made a
big mistake. He wasn’t going to get a chance
to throw it. If he so much as moved, Combat
Jacket would shoot him in the leg and then
drag him to the car.

“Drop it!” Combat Jacket commanded.

Alex Rider let go of the ball.

It was a medicine ball from the gym. It
weighed five kilograms and for a second
time, Alex had been afraid he would split his
stitches. But what Combat Jacket hadn’t seen
was that Alex had also taken a length of
elastic out of the cupboard. He had tied it
across the corridor, from one door handle to
another, and then stretched it all the way
back with the medicine ball. The ball was
now a missile in an oversized catapult, and

63/539
when Alex released it, it shot the full length
of the corridor as if fired from a cannon.

Combat Jacket was only faintly aware of the
great weight hurtling out of the shadows be-
fore it hit him square in the stomach, rocket-
ing him off his feet. The gun flew out of his
hand. The breath was punched out of his
lungs. His shoulders hit the floor and he slid
five metres before crashing into the wall. He
just had time to tell himself that this wasn’t
Paul Drevin—that
this was no ordinary
fourteen-year-old boy—

before he blacked out.

Steel Watch had just entered the physio de-
partment. He heard the crash and turned the
corner in combat position, his own weapon
ready to fire. He didn’t understand what was
happening, but he knew that he had lost the
initiative. What should have been a simple
snatch had gone horribly wrong. There was a
figure sprawled on the floor in front of him,

64/539
its neck twisted and face drained of colour. A
large medicine ball lay near by.

Steel Watch blinked in disbelief. He saw one
of the doors at the end of the corridor swing
shut. That told him all he needed to know.
He followed.

Twenty paces ahead of him, Alex was once
more making his way downstairs. It seemed
the only way to go.

The stairs led him back to the ground floor,
where it had all begun. The reception area
was unnaturally silent apart from the soft
hum of a refrigerated drinks dispenser.
White light spilled over the rows of Coke and
Fanta, throwing hard shadows across the
floor. Three desks faced each other across
the empty space.

Alex knew there was a dead man behind one
of them, but he couldn’t bring himself to
look. He could see the street on the other

65/539
side of the glass doors. Should he make a
break for it? Get outside and call for help?

There was no time. He heard Steel Watch
coming down the stairs and dived behind the
nearest desk, searching for cover.

A moment later, Steel Watch arrived. Peer-
ing round from his hiding place, Alex could
see the timepiece glinting on his wrist. It was
a huge, chunky thing, the sort divers wear.
The man had an unusually thick wrist. His
entire body was overdeveloped, the various
muscle groups almost fighting each other as
he walked. Although he was the last survivor,
he wasn’t panicking. He was carrying a
second FP9. He seemed to sense that Alex
was near.

“I’m not going to hurt you!” he called out. He
didn’t sound convincing and must have
known it, because a second later he snapped,
“Come out with your hands up or I’ll put a
bullet in your knee.”

66/539
Alex timed his move exactly, racing across
the main reception. Something coughed
twice and the carpet ripped itself apart in
front of his feet. That was when he knew the
rules had changed. Steel Watch had decided
to take him dead or alive. And it looked like
he’d prefer dead. But Alex was already out of
sight.

He had found another corridor with a sign
reading RADIOLOGY—and he knew exactly
where he was going. He had come here twice
at the start of his stay in the hospital.

There was a locked door ahead of him—but
Alex had watched the code being entered
only a few days before. As fast as he could, he
pressed the four-digit number, willing him-
self not to make a mistake. He pushed and
the door opened. This part of the hospital
was deserted at night but he knew the ma-
chines on the other side never slept. They
were kept activated around the clock in case

67/539
they were needed. And they had never been
needed more than now.

Alex could hear Steel Watch coming up be-
hind him, but he forced himself to stay calm.
There was another lock to deal with, this one
tripped by a switch concealed under one of
the nurses’ desks. Alex breathed a silent
prayer of thanks to the hospital orderly who
had made a joke about it as he had wheeled
him in.

There was a large, heavy door ahead of him.
It was covered with warning signs beneath a
single word: MAGNETOM Alex knew what
the warnings said. The orderly had told him.
He opened the door and went in. There was a
narrow, padded bench in front of him. It led
to a large machine that reminded him of a
tumble drier, a space capsule and a giant
doughnut all rolled into one. There was a
hole in the middle of it, the inner rim rotat-
ing slowly. The bench was designed so that it
could be raised and passed slowly through

68/539
the hole. Alex had been placed on the bench
when he first came to St Dominic’s, and the
doctor had told him exactly what it did.

It was an MRI machine. The letters stood for
magnetic resonance imaging. As Alex had
passed through the hole, a scanner had taken
a three-dimensional
image of his body,
checking the muscle damage in his chest,
arm and shoulder. He remembered what the
doctor had told him. He needed that know-
ledge now.

There was a movement at the door. Steel
Watch had followed him in.

“Don’t move,” Steel Watch ordered. He was
holding his gun at chest height. The silencer
was pointing at Alex’s head.

Alex let his shoulders slump. “Looks like I
went the wrong way,” he said.

69/539
“Well, now you’re coming with me, you little
toe-rag,” the man replied. He ran his tongue
over his lip.

“The others … maybe they didn’t want to
hurt you. But if you try anything, I’ll put a
bullet in you.”

“I can’t move.”

“What?”

“I’m hurt…”

Steel Watch stared at Alex, trying to see what
was wrong. He took a step forward. And that
was when it happened.

The gun was torn out of his grip.

It was gone so fast that he didn’t understand
what was happening. It was as if a pair of in-
visible hands had simply ripped his weapon
away. It was whisked into the darkness,
nothing more than a blur. Steel Watch cried
out in pain. The gun had dislocated two of
his fingers, almost tearing them right off.

70/539
There was a loud clang as it hit the machine
and stayed there, as if glued to the surface.

An MRI uses an incredibly powerful magnet-
ic field to scan soft tissue. The strength of
this machine was 1.5

Tesla and the notices on the door had
warned anyone approaching the room to re-
move all items made of metal. An MRI can
pull a set of keys out of a pocket; it can wipe
a credit card clean at twenty paces. Steel
Watch had felt its enormous power but he
still hadn’t understood. He was about to find
out.

Alex Rider had adopted the karate stance
known as zenkutsu dachi, feet apart and
hands raised. Every fibre of his being was
concentrated on the man in front of him. It
was a challenge to Steel Watch to take him
on with his own bare hands, and Steel Watch
couldn’t resist. He took a step forward.

71/539
And screamed as his heavy steel watch
entered the magnetic field. Alex watched in
astonishment as what is known as the mis-
sile effect took place. The man was lifted off
his feet and hurled through the air, dragged
by the watch on his wrist. There was a hor-
rible thud as he crashed into the MRI ma-
chine. He had landed awkwardly, his arm
and head tangled together. He stayed where
he was, half standing, half lying, his legs
trailing uselessly behind him.

It was over. Four men had entered the hos-
pital and every one of them was either un-
conscious or worse.

Alex was still half convinced that any second
he would wake up in bed. Maybe he had been
given too many painkillers. Surely the whole
thing was just some sort of ghastly medic-
ated dream.

But it wasn’t. Alex went back to reception
and there was Conor, sprawled behind his

72/539
desk, a single bullet wound in his head. Alex
knew he had to call the police. He was
amazed that he hadn’t seen one single nurse
during the entire ordeal. He leant over the
desk, reaching for the phone. A cool night
breeze brushed across his neck.

That should have warned him.

Four men had come into the hospital but five
had been assigned to the job. There was an-
other man: the driver. And if the main doors
hadn’t just opened, there wouldn’t have been
a breeze.

Too late Alex realized what that meant. He
straightened up as fast as he could, but that
wasn’t fast enough.

He heard nothing. He didn’t even feel the
blow to the back of his head.

He crumpled to the floor and lay still.

KASPAR

You’re in pain. That’s all you know. Your
head is pounding and your heart is throbbing
and you wonder if someone has managed to
tie a knot in your neck.

It was a feeling that Alex Rider knew all too
well. He had been knocked out by Mr Grin
when he was at the Stormbreaker assembly
plant, by the vicious Mrs Stellenbosch at the
Academy of Point Blanc, and by Nile at the
Widow’s Palace in Venice. Even Alan Blunt
had got one of his men to fire a tranquillizer
dart into him when he had first infiltrated
the headquarters of MI6.

And it was no different this time, the slow
climb back from nothing to the world of air
and light. Alex became aware that he was ly-
ing down, his cheek pressed against the
dusty wooden floor. There was an unpleasant
taste in his mouth. With an effort he opened

74/539
his eyes and then closed them again as the
light from a naked bulb dangling overhead
burned into them. He waited, then opened
them a second time.

Slowly he straightened his legs and stretched
his arms and thought exactly what he
thought every time it happened.

You’re still alive. You’re a prisoner. But for
some reason they haven’t killed you yet.

Alex dragged himself into a sitting position
and looked around him. He was in a room
that was completely bare: no carpet, no cur-
tains, no furniture, no decoration. Nothing.
There was a wooden door, presumably
locked, and a single window. He was sur-
prised to see that it wasn’t barred, but when
he staggered over to it, he understood why.

He was high up, seven or eight storeys. Dawn
was only just breaking and it was hard to see
through the dirty glass, but he guessed he’d
been unconscious for a few hours and that he

75/539
was still in London. It looked like he was be-
ing held in an abandoned tower block. There
was another block opposite and, looking up,
Alex could just see a huge banner strung
between two wires running from the top of
one building to the other. The first words
were outside his field of vision but he could
make out the rest: TOWERS

SOON TO BE AN EXCITING NEW
DEVELOPMENT FOR EAST LONDON.

He went over to the door and tried it just in
case. It didn’t move.

His left arm was aching badly and he mas-
saged it, wondering how much damage he
had done to himself.

This was meant to be his last night in the
hospital! How could he have allowed himself
to get involved with a gang of murderers who
had broken in…? What for?

76/539
Alex rested his shoulders against a wall and
slid back down to the floor, cradling his arm.
He was still barefooted and he shivered. His
single shirt wasn’t enough to protect him
against the chill of the early morning. Sitting
there, he played back the events that had
brought him here.

Four men had come to St Dominic’s, but they
hadn’t been interested in him. They had
asked for the boy in the room next door: Paul
Drevin. Suddenly Alex remembered where
he had heard the name. He’d seen it in the
newspapers—but not Paul. Nikolei. That was
it. Nikolei Drevin was some sort of Russian
multibillionaire. Well, that made sense. The
men must have wanted his son for the most
obvious reason.

Money. But they had accidentally kidnapped
him instead.

What would they do when they found out?
Alex tried to put the thought out of his mind.

77/539
He had seen how they’d dealt with Conor,
the night receptionist. Somehow he didn’t
think they’d apologize and offer him the taxi
fare home.

But there was nothing he could do. He sat
where he was, slumped against the wall,
watching the sky turn from grey to red to a
dull sort of blue.

He must have dozed off, because the next
thing he knew, the door had opened and
Spectacles was standing over him, an expres-
sion of pure hatred on his face. Alex wasn’t
surprised. The last time they’d met, Alex had
slammed a ten-kilogram oxygen tank into his
groin. If there was any surprise, it was that
just a few hours later the man had found the
strength to stand.

Spectacles was holding a gun. Alex looked in-
to the man’s eyes. They glinted orange be-
hind the tinted glass and gazed at him with

78/539
undisguised venom. “Get up!” he snapped.
“You’re to come with me.”

“Whatever you say.” Alex got slowly to his
feet. “Is it my imagination,” he asked, “or is
your voice a little higher than it used to be?”

The hand with the gun twitched. “This way,”
Spectacles muttered.

Alex followed him out into a corridor that
was as dilapidated as the room where he had
been confined. The walls were damp and
peeling. Many of the ceiling tiles were miss-
ing, revealing great gaps filled with a tangle
of wires and pipes. There were doors every
ten or fifteen metres, some of them hanging
off
they would have
opened into people’s flats. But it was obvious
that—apart
cock-
roaches—nobody had lived here for years.

their hinges. Once,

and

from

rats

Combat Jacket was waiting for them outside.

79/539
He had recovered from his encounter with
the medicine ball but there was an ugly
bruise on the side of his head where he had
hit the wall. The two of them marched Alex
down the corridor to a door at the end.

“In!” Spectacles said.

Alex pushed open the door and went
through. He found himself in a large, open
space with litter strewn across the floor and
graffiti everywhere. There were windows on
two sides, some of them covered by broken
blinds. Alex guessed he was inside one of the
flats, although the partition walls had been
smashed through to make a single area. He
could see an abandoned bath in one corner.
In the middle, there was a table and two
chairs. A man was sitting there, waiting for
him. Spectacles prodded his gun into Alex’s
back.

Alex stepped forward and sat down.

80/539
With a shiver, he examined the man sitting
opposite him. He was dressed in what might
once have been a uniform but the jacket was
torn and missing buttons. The man must
have been about thirty years old but it was
impossible to be sure. His face and head had
been tattooed all over. Alex saw the United
States of America reaching down one cheek,
Europe on the other. His nose and the skin
above his lips were blue, the colour of the At-
lantic Ocean. Brazil and West Africa touched
the comers of his mouth. If the man turned
round, Alex knew he would see Russia and
China. He had never seen anything quite so
strange—or so revolting—in his life.

With difficulty, Alex tore his eyes away and
looked around. Combat Jacket and Spec-
tacles were standing on either side of the
doorway. Silver Tooth was lurking in a
corner. Alex hadn’t noticed him in the shad-
ows, but now he stepped into the light and
Alex saw that his neck was swollen, two

81/539
angry red marks burned into the skin. There
was no sign of Steel Watch. Perhaps they’d
been unable to peel him off the Magnetom.

The man with the tattoos spoke. “You have
caused us a great deal of annoyance,” he
said. “In truth, you should be dead.”

Alex was silent. He wasn’t sure yet what to
say.

“My name is Kaspar,” the man continued.

Alex shrugged. “You mean … like Casper the
friendly ghost?”

The man didn’t smile. “Why were you out of
your room last night?”

“I needed some air.”

“It would have been better if you had simply
opened the window,” Kaspar said. When he
spoke, whole continents moved. It occurred
to Alex that if he sneezed it would set off a
global earthquake. “Do you know who I am?”
he asked.

82/539
“No,” Alex replied. “But it would be useful to
have you around in a geography exam.”

“I wouldn’t have thought you were in any po-
sition to make jokes.” Kaspar’s voice was flat
and unemotional. He gestured at the other
men. “You have caused my colleagues a great
deal of pain and inconvenience. They would
like me to kill you. Perhaps I will.”

“What do you want me for?” Alex demanded.
“I will tell you.” Kaspar ran a finger down the
side of his face. It travelled from Norway to
Algeria. “I can see that you are surprised by
my appearance. You may think it extreme.
But these markings represent who I am and
what I believe in. We are all part of this
world. I have made the world part of me.” He
paused.

“I am what you might call a freedom fighter.
But the freedom I believe in is a planet free
of the exploitation and pollution caused by
rich businessmen and multinationals who

83/539
would destroy all life simply to enrich them-
selves. We have global warming. The ozone
layer has been decimated. Our precious re-
sources are fast running out. But still these
fat cats continue lining their pockets today
with no thought or care for tomorrow. Your
father is such a man.”

“My father? You’ve got it all wrong—” The
man moved incredibly quickly. He stood up
and lashed out, hitting the side of Alex’s head
with the back of his hand. Alex snapped
back, more startled than hurt.

interrupt!” Kaspar

“Don’t
commanded.
“Your father made his fortune from oil. His
pipelines have scarred three continents. And
now, not content with damaging the earth,
he is turning his attention to outer space.

Four species of wild birds have been made
extinct by the launch of his rockets from the
Caribbean. Apes and chimpanzees have been
the unwilling victims of his test flights. He is

84/539
an enemy of mankind and has therefore be-
come a legitimate target of Force Three.”

Kaspar sat down again.

“There are those who think of us as crimin-
als,” he went on. “But it is your father who is
the real criminal, and he has forced us to act
the way we do. Now we have decided to
make him pay. He will give us one million
pounds for your safe return. This money will
be used to continue our struggle to protect
the planet.

If he refuses, he will never see you again.

“That is why you were taken from St Domin-
ic’s last night. You will remain with us until
the ransom has been paid. I do not person-
ally wish to harm you, Paul, but we have to
prove to your father that we have you. We
must send him a message that he cannot ig-
nore. And I’m afraid that will demand a
small sacrifice from you.”

85/539
Alex tried to speak but his head was reeling.
It was all happening too fast. Before he could
react, his right arm was seized from behind.
Combat Jacket had crept up on him while
Kaspar had been talking. Alex tried to resist,
but the man was too strong. The cuff of his
shirt was ripped open and the sleeve pulled
back.

Then his hand was forced down on the table
and his fingers spread out one by one. There
was nothing he could do. Combat Jacket was
holding him so tightly, his fingers were turn-
ing white. Silver Tooth approached from the
other side. He had taken out his knife. He
handed it to Kaspar.

“We could send your father a photograph,”
Kaspar explained. “But what would that
achieve? He will know by now that you have
been taken by force. There are stronger ways
of making our demands known, ways that he
may find more persuasive.” He lifted the
knife close to his chin, as if about to shave.

86/539
The blade was fifteen centimetres long with a
serrated edge. He examined his reflection in
the steel. “We could send him a lock of your
hair. He would, I’m sure, recognize it as
yours. But then, he might take it as a sign of
weakness—of compassion—on our part.

“And so I apologize, Paul Drevin. It gives me
no pleasure to hurt a child, even a wealthy,
spoilt child such as yourself. But what I in-
tend to send your father is a finger from your
right hand…”

Automatically Alex tried to pull back. But
Combat Jacket had been expecting it. His full
weight pressed down on Alex’s hand. His fin-
gers were splayed, helpless, on the table.

“The pain will be great. But there are chil-
dren all over the world who have only ever
known pain and starvation, while boys like
you languish in the playground of the rich.
Do you play the piano, Paul? I hope not. It
will not be so easy after today.”

87/539
He reached out and grabbed Alex’s little fin-
ger. That was the one he had chosen. The
knife began its journey down.

“I’m not Paul Drevin!” Alex spat out the
words urgently. His eyes had widened. He
could feel the blood draining from his face.
The knife was still moving. “You’ve made a
mistake!” he insisted. “My name is Alex
Rider. I was in room nine. I don’t know any-
thing about Paul Drevin.”

The knife stopped. It was millimetres above
his little finger.

“Do it!” Combat Jacket hissed.

“I was awake last night,” Alex insisted. The
words came tumbling out. “I was coming
back from the toilet. I saw your men outside
my room. One of them pulled out a gun, and
then they began chasing me. I didn’t know
what was happening.
I had to defend
myself…”

88/539
“He’s lying,” Combat Jacket snarled. “I asked
him his name.” He turned to Spectacles.
“Tell him.”

“That’s right,” Spectacles agreed. “We saw
his room. Room eight. It was empty. Then he
appeared. We called out his name and he
answered.”

Kaspar tightened his grip on the knife. He
had made up his mind.

“I was in room nine, not room eight!” Alex
was shouting now. His head was swimming.
He could already see the knife cutting
through flesh and bone. He could imagine
the pain. Then suddenly he had a thought.

“What do you think I was in hospital for?” he
demanded.

“We know what you were there for,” Kaspar
replied. “Appendicitis.”

“Appendicitis. Right. Then look at my band-
ages. They’re nowhere near my appendix.”

89/539
There was a long pause. Alex could feel Com-
bat Jacket still pressing down hard, longing
for the cutting to begin. But Kaspar was un-
certain. “Open his shirt,” he ordered. Nobody
moved. “Do it!”

Combat Jacket was still holding Alex as
tightly as ever but now Silver Tooth stepped
forward. He reached out and grabbed hold of
Alex’s shirt, tearing the top two buttons. Kas-
par stared at the bandages crossing over his
chest. Alex could feel his heart straining be-
neath them. “What is this?” Kaspar deman-
ded. “I had a chest wound.”

“What sort of chest wound?”

“An accident on my bike.” It was the one lie
Alex had told. He couldn’t tell them what
had really happened. He didn’t want them to
know who he was. “I met Paul Drevin,” he
admitted. “He’s the same age as me. But he
doesn’t look anything like me. Just make a
phone call. You can find out easily enough.”

90/539
He took a deep breath. “You can cut off all
my fingers if you want, but his father isn’t
going to pay you a penny. He doesn’t even
know I exist!”

There was another silence.

“He’s lying!” Combat Jacket insisted.

But Kaspar was already working it out for
himself. He had heard Alex speak. Paul
Drevin had a faint Russian accent. This boy
had obviously lived in England all his life.
Kaspar swore and stabbed down with the
knife. The blade buried itself in the table less
than a centimetre from Alex’s hand. The hilt
quivered as he released it.

Alex saw the disappointment in the faces of
Spectacles and Silver Tooth. But Kaspar had
made his decision.

“Let go of him.”

Combat Jacket held him tightly for a mo-
ment longer, then released his arm and stood

91/539
back, muttering something ugly under his
breath. Alex snatched back his hand. His
right arm was hurting as much as his left
one. He wondered if Kaspar would send him
back to the hospital. By the time he got out of
here, he would need it.

But it wasn’t over yet.

Spectacles and Silver Tooth were waiting to
escort him out, but Kaspar gestured for them
to wait. He was examining Alex a second
time, reassessing him. It was impossible to
see behind the markings on his face, to know
what was going on in his mind. “If it turns
out that you are who you say you are,” he
began, “if you really are not Paul Drevin,
then you are of no use to us. We can kill you
in any way that we please. And I think it will
please my men to kill you very slowly indeed.
So perhaps, my friend, it would have been
better for you if there had been no mistake.
Perhaps the loss of one finger might have
been the easier way.”

92/539
Silver Tooth was grinning. Spectacles nod-
ded gravely.

“Take him back to his room,” Kaspar com-
manded. “I will make the necessary enquir-
ies. And then we’ll meet again.”

FIRE ESCAPE

It was late afternoon when the door opened
and Combat Jacket came in. Alex guessed
that he had been in the room for eight hours.
He had been allowed out once to use a chem-
ical toilet, and at around midday he had been
given a sandwich and a drink by an unsmil-
ing Spectacles. The sandwich had been two
days past its sell-by date and still in the
plastic wrapping, bought from a garage. But
Alex wolfed it down hungrily.

Combat Jacket had been sent to fetch him.
He led Alex back down the corridor to the
flat where the interrogation had taken place,
his face with its ugly, broken nose giving
nothing away. There was something about
the whole set-up that Alex didn’t understand.
Kaspar had told him they were freedom
fighters—eco-warriors or whatever. They
were certainly fanatics. The tattoos were

94/539
ample proof of that. But the way they were
treating him, the threats, the demands for
money, seemed to belong to a different
world.

They talked about pollution and the ozone
layer; but they acted like thugs and common
criminals. They had killed the night recep-
tionist for no good reason. They seemed to
have no regard at all for human life.

By now, Alex guessed, they must know the
truth. So what were they going to do with
him? He remembered what Kaspar had said
and clamped down on his imagination. In-
stead, he searched for a way to break out of
here. It wasn’t going to be easy. The four
men had already tested him once. They knew
what he was capable of. They weren’t going
to give him a second chance.

Kaspar was waiting for him. There was a
newspaper on the table in front of him but
no sign of the knife.

95/539
Spectacles and Silver Tooth were standing
behind him. As Alex sat down, Kaspar turned
the newspaper round. It was the Evening
Standard and the front-page headline told
the whole story in just three words. Wrong
boy kidnapped. Nobody was talking, so Alex
quickly read the article. There was a photo-
graph of St Dominic’s Hospital but no pic-
ture of him or Paul Drevin. That didn’t sur-
prise him. He remembered reading some-
where that Paul’s
father—Nikolei Drev-
in—had managed to get an embargo on any
photos of his family being published, claim-
ing it was too much of a security risk. And, of
course, MI6

would have prevented any picture of Alex be-
ing used. He didn’t even get a mention by
name.

A security guard was murdered in the small
hours of the morning during a ruthless at-
tack on a north London hospital. It seems al-
most certain that the intended target of the

96/539
gang was fourteen-year-old Paul Drevin, son
of one of the world’s richest men, Russian
businessman Nikolei Drevin. Drevin made
the headlines earlier this year when he
bought Stratford East Football Club. He is
also the guiding light behind the hundred
billion pound Ark Angel project—the first
hotel in space.

In an astonishing development, police have
confirmed that the gang managed to kidnap
the wrong boy.

This other boy, who has not been named,
was discovered to be missing from his room
following major surgery. Speaking from the
hospital, Dr Roger Hayward made an urgent
plea for the boy’s fast return. His condition is
said to be stable but serious.

Alex looked up. Kaspar seemed to be waiting
for him to speak. “I told you,” he said. “So
why don’t you let me go? I’ve got nothing to
do with this. I was just next door.”

97/539

“You got involved on purpose,” Kaspar said.

“No.” Alex denied it but his mouth was dry.

“You switched room numbers. You answered
to the name of Paul Drevin. You crippled one
of my men and injured the others.”

Alex said nothing, waiting for the axe to fall.

“I don’t understand why you chose to be-
come involved,” Kaspar went on. “I don’t
know who you are. But you made your de-
cision. You chose to become an enemy of
Force Three and so you must pay.”

“I didn’t choose anything.”

“I’m not going to argue with you. I am fight-
ing a war and in any war there are casual-
ties—innocent victims who just happen to
get in the way. If it makes it any easier, think
of yourself as one of them.” Kaspar sighed
but there was no sadness in the map of his
face. “Goodbye, Alex Rider. It was a pity that
we had to meet. It has cost me a million

98/539
pounds in ransom money. It will cost you
rather more…”

Before Alex could react, he was grabbed from
behind and dragged to his feet. He didn’t
speak as he was forced back out of the room
and down the corridor. This time he was
thrown into another room, smaller than his
previous cell. Alex just had time to make out
a chair, a barred window and four bare walls
before he was shoved hard in the back and
sent sprawling to the floor.

Combat Jacket stood over him. “I wish he’d
let me have a little time with you,” he rasped.
“If I had my way, we’d do this differently—”

“Move it!” The voice came from outside. One
of the other men was waiting.

Combat Jacket spat at Alex and walked out.
The door closed and almost at once Alex
heard the unmistakable sound of hammer-
ing. He shook his head in disbelief. They

99/539
weren’t just locking him in. They were nail-
ing the door to the frame.

Once again, he examined his surroundings.
He wondered why they had chosen this par-
ticular room. The bars on the window made
no real difference. Even if the window had
been wide open, he was at least seven storeys
up. He wouldn’t have Deen able to climb out.
And what exactly were they proposing to do?

They obviously weren’t planning to come
back and get him. Were they simply going to
leave him here to starve to death?

The answer came about an hour later. The
sun was beginning to set and lights were
coming on in buildings all over east London.
Alex was becoming increasingly anxious. He
was on his own, high up in a derelict tower
block. He had a feeling that Kaspar and the
others had gone; he could hear nothing at all
on the other side of the door. The silence was
unnerving. He knew that MI6 would be

100/539
doing everything they could, searching the
city for him, but what hope did they have of
finding him here? He couldn’t open the win-
dow. The room was empty. There was no way
he could attract anyone’s attention. For once
he really did seem to be completely helpless.

And then he smelled it. Seeping through the
floorboards, coming from somewhere deep
in the heart of the building. Burning.

They had set fire to the tower block. Alex
knew it even before he saw the first grey
wisps of smoke creeping under the door.
They had doused the place with petrol, set it
alight and left him nailed inside what would
soon be the world’s biggest funeral pyre. For
a moment he felt panic—black and irresist-
ible—as it engulfed him. More smoke was
curling under the door. Alex sprang to his
feet and backed over to the window, wonder-
ing if there was some way he could knock out
the glass. But that wouldn’t help him. He
forced himself to slow down, to think. He

101/539
wasn’t going to let them kill him. Only eleven
days ago, a paid assassin had fired a .22 cal-
ibre bullet at his heart. But he was still alive.
He wasn’t easy to kill.

There were just two ways out of the room:
the door and the window. Both of those were
obviously hopeless. But what about
the
walls? They were made of hardboard and
plaster. In the flat where he had been inter-
rogated, they had been knocked through.
Maybe he could do the same here. Experi-
mentally he ran his hands over them, push-
ing and probing, searching for any weak
spots. His throat was sore and his eyes were
beginning to water. More and more smoke
was pouring in. He stood back, then lashed
out in a karate kick, his foot smashing into
the centre of the wall. Pain shot up his leg
and through his body. The wall didn’t even
crack.

That just left the ceiling. Alex remembered
the corridor outside. It had been missing

102/539
some of its ceiling tiles and he had seen a gap
underneath the pipes and wires that ran
above. The ceiling in this room was covered
with the same tiles.

And they had left him a chair.

He dragged it over to the corner nearest the
door and stood on it. The floor had almost
disappeared beneath a swirling carpet of
smoke. It seemed to be reaching up as if it
wanted to grab hold and devour him. Alex
checked his balance, then punched upwards
with the heel of his hand. The tiles were
made of some sort of fibreboard and broke
easily. He punched again, then tore at the
edges of the hole he had made.

Dirt and debris showered down, almost
blinding him. But when he next looked up he
saw that there was a space above him. If he
could reach, he could haul himself up, over
the door and jump down the other side.

103/539
He ripped out more tiles until the hole was
wide enough to squeeze through. He could
hear something a few floors below him—a
faint crackling. The sound made his skin
crawl. It meant that the fire was getting
close. He forced himself to concentrate on
what he was doing. The chair was wobbling
underneath him. If he fell and twisted an
ankle, he was finished.

At last he was ready. He tensed himself, then
jumped. He felt the chair topple and crash to
the floor—but he had done it! His hands had
caught hold of an old water pipe and now he
was dangling just below the ceiling, his arms
disappearing into the space above. Once
again he was all too aware of the stitches in
his chest and wondered briefly if they would
hold. God! The physio people had told him
he ought to keep up his stretching exercises,
but he doubted they’d had this in mind.

Gritting his teeth, Alex summoned all his
strength to pull himself up into the cavity.

104/539
His face passed through a cobweb and he
grimaced as the fine strands laced them-
selves over his nose and mouth. His stomach
touched the edge of the hole. He was half in
and half out of the room. The crawl space
was in front of him. The wall with the door
was underneath him. Dozens of wires and in-
sulated pipes ran inches above his head,
stretching into the distance. Dust stung his
eyes. What now?

Alex dragged himself along the pipe, bring-
ing his feet up into the ceiling recess. He
kicked down with his heels. More ceiling tiles
fell loose and he saw the corridor below.
There was a drop of about four metres.

Awkwardly he swung himself forward, then
let his legs and torso hang. Finally he let go.
He dropped down, landing in a crouch. He
was in the corridor, on the other side of the
locked door. With a sigh of
relief, he
straightened up. He was out of the room but
he was at
least seven floors up in an

105/539
abandoned building that had been set on
fire. He wasn’t safe yet.

The crackling of the flames was louder out in
the corridor. The block of flats had seemed
damp and musty to Alex but it was going up
like a torch. He could feel the heat in the air.
The end of the corridor—where he had been
interrogated—was already shimmering in the
heat haze. Where was the fire brigade?
Surely someone must have seen what was
happening. Alex noticed a fire alarm set in
the wall, but the glass was already broken
and the alarm button was missing. He would
have to get out of here on his own.

Which way? He only had two choices—left or
right—and he decided to head away from the
interrogation room. He hadn’t seen a stair-
case when he had been taken there to meet
Kaspar, but there might be one in the other
direction. Smoke trickled up through the
floorboards. It hung eerily in the doorways.

106/539
Soon it would be impossible to see. Very
soon it would be impossible to breathe.

He sprinted past the first room where he had
been held and continued down the corridor,
passing a set of lift doors. He didn’t even
think about trying the lift. Nothing in the
building worked and the doors were welded
shut. But next to the lift he found what he
was looking for: a staircase leading up and
down. The steps were made of concrete, zig-
zagging round behind the lift shaft. He res-
ted his hand briefly on the metal stair rail.

It was hot. The fire was near.

But he had no choice. He began to run down,
his bare feet slapping against the cement. He
would just have to hope he didn’t come
across any broken glass. There were twenty-
five steps between each floor; he counted
them without meaning to. He turned a
corner and saw a door leading into a smoke-
filled corridor.

107/539

Definitely no way out there.

The further down he went, the worse it got.
Twenty-five more steps and he came to an-
other door. The corridor on the other side
was well alight. There were brilliant red and
orange flames, tearing into the walls, leaping
up through the floor, devouring everything
in their path. Alex was shocked by their
speed and elemental strength. He had to put
up a hand to protect himself, to stop his
cheeks from burning.

He continued down. Force Three had started
the blaze on the ground floor, allowing the
air to carry the flames upwards. As Alex
reached the third floor and began the next
flight of steps down, he could barely breathe.
The smoke was smothering him. He wished
he’d thought to soak his shirt in water, to
cover his eyes and mouth. But where would
he have found water in the building anyway?
Another twenty-five steps. Then another.
Alex was choking. He could feel the sweat

108/539
dripping down his sides. It was like being in-
side a giant oven. How much further?

He saw daylight. A door leading out onto the
street.

And that was when Combat Jacket appeared,
a nightmare creature,
stepping out of
nowhere as if in slow motion, his gun raised
in front of him. Alex saw the muzzle flash
and threw himself backwards as a bullet shot
past centimetres above him. He landed awk-
wardly on the stairs and he was already
rolling as a second bullet spat into the con-
crete, sending fragments of cement flying in-
to the side of his
face. Somehow he
scrambled to his feet and began to climb up
again. Combat Jacket fired twice more but
for a brief moment, the smoke was on Alex’s
side, and the bullets missed. Alex turned a
corner. He didn’t stop until he was back on
the first floor.

109/539
He felt sick—a mixture of fury and despair.
He’d almost made it. What was Combat
Jacket doing there, waiting for him? Had he
guessed that Alex might somehow manage to
escape? It made no sense. But he couldn’t
think about it now. He was still trapped in-
side a burning building and he was rapidly
running out of options. It was getting harder
and harder to breathe. He looked along the
corridor. It was a furnace. He couldn’t go
that way. He couldn’t go down. That only left
up.

Wearily, he started to climb. He made it to
the second floor with just seconds to spare.
As he continued up, there was a sudden rush
of flames and a crash as part of the ceiling
collapsed. Burning wood, metal and glass
cascaded down. The fire had reached the
stairs: now the way down was permanently
blocked. He would have to try to make it to
the roof. Perhaps he would be lucky. The

110/539
police and fire brigade would be on the way.
There might be helicopters.

Alex kept climbing. His hands were black;
his face was streaked with tears. But he
didn’t stop. At the very worst, he would die
in the open air. He wasn’t going to let the fire
finish him here.

He was no longer counting the steps. His legs
were aching and the bandages around his
chest had come loose. He ran past the eighth
floor with a growing sense of despair. This
was where he had begun. Forcing himself on,
he continued to climb, past the ninth, the
tenth … eleventh … twelfth… He was aware
of the flames chasing him, filling the stair-
well, licking at his heels. It was as if the fire
knew he was there and was afraid of losing
him. At last he came to a solid door with a
metal push mechanism. He slammed his
palms against it, terrified it would be locked.
But the door swung open. The cool evening
air rushed to greet him.

111/539
The sun had set but the sky was a brilliant
red, the same colour as the fire that would be
with him all too soon.

Alex was close to exhaustion. He had barely
eaten all day. He was meant to be in bed. He
almost wanted to cry but instead he swore,
once, shouting out the ugly word. Then he
wiped a grimy sleeve across his face and
looked around.

He was on the roof, fifteen storeys up. He
could see a water tank in front of him and a
brick building that housed the cables for the
lifts. Well, there were no working lifts and
there was probably no water either, so
neither of them would help. At some stage
builders must have carried out some work up
here. They had left a few lengths of scaffold-
ing and plastic piping as well as a cement
mixer and two steel buckets, both half filled
with cement that had long ago dried and so-
lidified. Alex ran to the edge of the roof,
searching for a fire escape down. He could

112/539
feel the tarmac against the soles of his feet. It
was already hot. Soon it would begin to melt.

There was no fire escape. There was no way
down. He could see the street far below. No
cars. No pedestrians. He was in some sort of
industrial district in east London. The whole
area looked like it was cordoned off, waiting
for the money that would make redevelop-
ment possible. The building opposite was
identical to this one, similarly condemned. It
stood less than fifty metres away, connected
by the banner that Alex had seen when he
woke up.

HORNCHURCH TOWERS

SOON TO BE AN EXCITING NEW
DEVELOPMENT FOR EAST LONDON.

If he had come here in a year’s time, he
might have found himself standing on the
balcony of a fabulous penthouse flat. Alex
took in the view. He could see the River
Thames in front of him. The Millennium

113/539
Dome, unwanted and unloved, sat on a spur
of land with the water bending round it. A
plane dipped out of the sky, making for City
Airport, which he could see over his
shoulder. Alex raised his arm, waving for at-
tention, but he knew at once that it was no
good. The plane was too high up. It was
already too dark. And the smoke was too
thick.

He hurried back to the door. He would have
to head down again and hope that the upper
corridors were still passable. Maybe he could
try the other side of the building. He pulled
the door open carefully. It seemed im-
possible that Combat Jacket would have fol-
lowed him all the way up, but he wasn’t tak-
ing any chances. But as the door swung wide,
he realized that Combat Jacket was the least
of his problems.

A fist of flame punched at him. The stairs
had become an inferno. At the same mo-
ment, there was an explosion and Alex was

114/539
hurled backwards by a thousand fragments
of burning, splintered wood which had been
blasted up from below. He landed painfully
on his back, and when he next looked up he
saw that the door itself was now on fire. It
was the only way off
the roof. He was
trapped.

Alex stood up. The tarmac was definitely get-
ting hotter. He could no longer stay too long
on one foot.

Black smoke was pouring out of the stairwell,
billowing into the sky. Now he heard the
sound he had been hoping for—the wail of
sirens. But he knew that by the time they got
to him, it would be too late. There was an-
other explosion below him. The windows
were beginning to shatter, unable to take the
heat. No way down. What could he do? The
banner.

It was twenty metres long, about a hundred
metres above the ground, a lifeline between

115/539
this building and the next. The advertise-
ment for Hornchurch Towers was suspended
between two steel cables; the top cable was
level with the roof, bolted into the brickwork.
Alex ran over to it. Could he stand on the
lower cable and hold onto the higher one? It
would be like a swing bridge in the jungle.
He could slowly inch his way across to the
other side and safety. But the cables were too
far apart—and the material was flapping in
the wind. It would knock him off before he
was even halfway.

Could he somehow crawl across on his hands
and knees? No. The cable was about two cen-
timetres thick. It wasn’t wide enough to sup-
port him. He would lose his balance and fall.
That was certain. So how? The answer came
to him in an instant. Everything he needed
was there in front of him. But it only worked
when he put it all together. Could he do it?
Another window shattered. Behind him, the
exit had disappeared in a whirlwind of

116/539
flames and smoke. He was standing on a gi-
ant hot plate and it was becoming more un-
bearable with every passing second. Alex
could see the fire engines, the size of toys,
speeding along about half a mile away. He
had to try. There was no other way.

He snatched up one of the lengths of plastic
piping, weighing it in his hands. It was about
six metres long and light enough for him to
carry without feeling any strain. He had to
make it heavier. Moving more quickly, he ex-
amined the steel buckets. They were half full
of hardened cement, and weighed about the
same. Somehow he had to attach them to the
piping. But there was no rope. He choked
and wiped sweat and tears from his eyes.
What could he use? Then he looked down
and saw the bandages flapping around his
chest. He grabbed an end and began to tear
them off. Sixty seconds later he was ready. It
was Ian Rider he had to thank, of course. A
visit to a circus in Vienna six years ago when

117/539
Alex was only eight. It had been his birthday.
And he still remembered his favourite act.
The tightrope walkers.

“Funambulism,” Ian Rider said.

“What’s that?”

“It’s Latin, Alex. Funis means rope. And am-
bulare is to walk. Funambulism is the art of
tightrope walking.”

“Is it difficult?”

“Well, it’s a lot easier than it looks. Not many
people
trick
involved…”

it, but

realize

there’s

a

the middle
Alex lifted the plastic pole,
pressed against his chest, about three metres
stretching out each side. There was a heavy
steel bucket attached to each end, tied in
place with a torn bandage. Every second he
waited he could feel the heat increasing. His
soles were already blistering and he knew he
couldn’t wait any more. He walked to the

118/539
edge of the roof. The metal cable running
above the advertisement stretched out into
the distance. Suddenly the other tower block
seemed a very long way away. He tried not to
look down. He knew that would make it im-
possible for him even to begin.

This was how it was meant to work. This was
what Ian Rider had explained.

The wire acts as an axis. If you try to walk
across the wire, you will fall the moment that
your centre of mass is not directly above it.
One wobble and gravity will do the rest.

But a long pole increases what is called the
rotational inertia of the tightrope artist. It
makes it more difficult to fall. And if you add
enough weight to each end, you will actually
shift your centre of gravity below the wire.
This was what Alex had done with the two
buckets. Provided he didn’t drop the pole, he
would find it almost impossible to lose his

119/539
balance. He had seen toys that worked on the
same principle. It should be easy.

At least, that was the theory. Alex took a
step. He had one foot on the very edge of the
brickwork and one foot on the metal cable.
All he had to do was lean forward, transfer-
ring his weight from one foot to the other,
and he would be walking the tightrope. If the
laws of physics worked, he would make it
across. If they didn’t, he would die. It was as
simple as that.

He took a deep breath and launched himself
off the building.

He could feel the pole flexing as the buckets
hung down, one on each side. For a terrifying
moment the world seemed to lurch sideways
and he was certain he was about to fall. But
he forced himself not to panic.

He clutched the pole more tightly against his
chest and focused on the cable ahead of him.
Briefly he closed his eyes, willing himself not

120/539
to fight for balance, to let the laws of physics
guide him.

And it worked. He wasn’t falling. He could
feel the cable cutting into his feet but mira-
culously he was stable. Now—how many
steps to the other side? The flames were
warming his back. It was time to move.

One step after another, he made his way
across. He wanted to look down. Every nerve
in his body was screaming at him to do just
that, and his neck and spine were rigid with
tension. But that was the one thing he must
not do. He tried to imagine that he was back
on the sports field at Brookland School. He
had walked along the painted white lines of-
ten enough. This was exactly the same—just
a bit higher up.

He was about halfway across when things
began to go wrong. And they went wrong
spectacularly.

121/539
First, the police and fire engines arrived.
Alex heard the screams of the sirens directly
beneath him and, before he could stop him-
self, he looked down. It was a mistake. He
was no longer walking across a sports field.
He was standing on a wire,
insanely far
above the ground. He saw people in uniform
pointing up at him and shouting; he could
just about hear their voices. One of the fire
trucks was extending its ladder towards him
but he doubted it would reach him in time.

The whole world began to spin. He felt a
rush of panic that seemed to dissolve every
muscle in his body and left him so weak that
he thought he would faint. At the same time,
the wind rose and the banner began to flutter
like the sail of a yacht, the cable swaying
from side to side. Alex knew that only the
weights on the ends of the pole were keeping
him upright. He was paralysed. There was
nothing he could do.

122/539
And that was when the rooftop exploded.
The flames had finally broken free. A fireball
burst through the tarmac. The police and
firemen dived for cover as bricks and pieces
of metal rained down. The whole tower block
was close to collapse. Alex felt a vibration
travel up through his body and realized with
horror that the metal stanchion holding the
top cable was about
to come loose. He
couldn’t wait for the firemen to reach him.
He had perhaps seconds left.

The shock of the explosion broke his paralys-
is. Alex ran, pushing against the pole, like a
sprinter breaking through the finishing line.
The buckets swung madly, held fast by the
bandages. Another explosion,
louder this
time. He didn’t dare look round.

The other building was getting nearer but it
still wasn’t near enough. His arms were
aching, barely able to hold the heavy weight.
The cable was cutting into his feet. He was
being battered by the wind. He wasn’t going

123/539
to make it. And then the cable snapped. Alex
heard a sound like a crack of a whip and
knew that his lifeline had been severed. With
a cry, he dropped the pole and threw himself
forward, reaching out for the roof just a few
metres away. The cable and the banner
crumpled under his feet. His hands missed
the edge of the building and he began to
plunge down. But now he was tangled up
with the banner; it was folding itself around
him. Alex grabbed hold of the material and
gasped as he crashed into the wall. His feet
were dangling in space. The cable was unrav-
elling beneath him. But it was still attached
to the rooftop just a few metres above his
head. Alex waited until he was sure nothing
else was moving. Then, painfully, he began
to pull himself up.

Two of the firemen had managed to reach
the roof. They were standing there, watching
as the building opposite completed its spec-
tacular collapse. They heard a noise and

124/539
looked down. A boy had just crawled up over
the edge, right by their feet. His shirt was in
rags, and a few tattered bandages trailed
from his chest. His face and hands were
covered in soot. His hair was black with
sweat.

“What the…?” They grabbed hold of him and
pulled him to safety.

Alex sat down heavily. He gazed at the re-
mains of the building where he had been
held prisoner. There was very little of it left.
Sparks leapt into the darkening sky.

“Nice night for a walk,” he said, and passed
out.

R&R

Jack Starbright made the best scrambled
eggs in the world. The secret, she said, was to
use only free-range eggs, mix them with un-
salted butter and a little milk—and then get
the whole thing over with as quickly as pos-
sible. She didn’t enjoy cooking and only used
recipes that could be prepared in less than
ten minutes.

This breakfast, for example, would go from
fridge to table in exactly eight and a half.

She heaped the eggs onto two plates, added
grilled bacon, tomatoes and toast, and car-
ried them over to the kitchen table where
Alex Rider was waiting. It was eleven o’clock
in the morning and the two of them were
back in the house in Chelsea where Alex had
once lived with his uncle. Jack had first come
there as a student, paying for her room by
looking after Alex while Ian Rider was away.

126/539
she had become a sort of

Gradually
housekeeper.

Now she was Alex’s legal guardian and also
his best friend.

Alex was wearing tracksuit trousers and a
loose T-shirt; his hair was still wet from the
shower. Two days had passed since his con-
frontation with Force Three and he was
already looking a lot like his old self—

although Jack noticed that he was still mas-
saging his left arm. She put the plates down
and poured two mugs of tea. Neither of them
spoke.

Alex had been taken straight back to hospital
after his dramatic escape. None of the fire-
men could believe what they had seen, and
assumed they had been sent
to rescue
someone who had trained at the circus.

Once again, MI6 had been forced to clamp
down on the press reports. Photographs of

127/539
Alex on the wire had appeared in newspa-
pers all over the world, but he had been too
far away to be recognized and his name was
kept out of it. An ambulance had rushed him
away before any journalists arrived, and by
ten o’clock that night he was back in his old
bed at St Dominic’s. He fell asleep at once.

The next morning, he was woken by the
nurse—Diana Meacher—coming into his
room.

“How are you feeling?” she asked.

“Tired,” Alex replied.

“Was that really you on the roof? I saw it on
the news last night.” She went over to the
window and raised the blinds. “Everyone’s
talking about it—although we’ve all been told
we’re not allowed to.” She came back to the
bed and slipped a thermometer into his
mouth. “And those men who broke in! We all
know what you did and we think you’re in-
credibly brave.”

128/539
“ ‘Ank you,” Alex said with difficulty. “I’d
watch out, though, if I were you. Dr Hay-
ward’s hopping mad.

He says he didn’t spend hours operating on
you just for you to get nearly killed a second
time. He’ll be here shortly.” She removed the
thermometer and examined it. “Your tem-
perature’s normal, though I’d say it’s the
only thing about you that is!”

Later that morning, Dr Hayward came in
and he certainly seemed less than cheerful.
He gave Alex a thorough check-up, starting
with his blood pressure and pulse rate and
moving on to examine his wound.

He barely spoke a word as he did it.

“It’s lucky that you keep yourself fit,” he re-
marked at last. He looked and spoke like a
long-suffering
those
shenanigans could have caused you serious
damage, but it looks as if your stitches have
held and you’re generally in one piece.”

headmaster.

“All

129/539

“When can I go home?”

“We’ll just keep you here until the end of the
day. I’m afraid the people you work for want
to speak to you.”

“I don’t work for anyone,” Alex said.

“Well … you know who I mean. Anyway,
there’s always a chance your system will re-
act against the beating you’ve given it. So I
want you to stay in bed today and I’ll come in
and have another look at you after tea.”

He stood up. “And one last thing, Alex. I’m
going to prescribe you at least two weeks’
rest and recuperation. I absolutely insist on
it.”

“Can I go back to school?”

“I’m afraid not. Just over a week ago you
were having major surgery. I know you’ve
made an amazing recovery but there are still
all sorts of risks—infection and all the rest of

130/539
it. Two weeks’ holiday, Alex. And no
arguments!”

Dr Hayward departed and Alex was left on
his own. To kill some time, he went for a
walk down the corridor, past room eight. It
was empty. Nobody had mentioned Paul
Drevin and it seemed that the other boy had
gone.

There is nothing worse than being in hospital
when you don’t feel you need to be there, and
by eleven o’clock Alex was in a bad mood.
Jack rang and he told her not to come in; he
would see her when she came to collect him.
His next visitor arrived just before lunch. It
wasn’t the person he had expected.

He had realized that MI6 would want to
know what had happened at Hornchurch
Towers and that they would send someone to
debrief him. He had expected Mrs Jones. But
instead it was John Crawley who arrived,
dressed in a nasty blue blazer with a crest on

131/539
the pocket, and holding a box of Roses
chocolates.

Crawley had once claimed to be a personnel
manager, and Alex still wasn’t quite sure
what he did at MI6.

He was in his late thirties with thinning hair
and a rather worried-looking face. He looked
like the sort of man who counted paperclips
and kept his pencils in a special drawer.

He sat down by the bed. “Got you these,” he
said, handing over the chocolates.

“Thank you, Mr Crawley.” Now that he was
closer, Alex could see that the badge on the
jacket belonged to Royal Tunbridge Wells
Golf and Croquet Club.

“Mrs Jones apologized for not coming her-
self. She’s in Berlin. She asked me to find out
what’s been going on. The police wanted to
talk to you too, but I’ve had a word with
them and they won’t be bothering you.

132/539
How are you feeling, by the way? We were all
very shocked by what happened. I had a run-
in with Scorpia about ten years ago and it
nearly did for me. Anyway, let’s get back to
Force Three. What exactly happened?”

Crawley took out a miniature tape recorder
and laid it on the bed. Quickly, Alex took him
through the events, starting with the mo-
ment the four men had walked into the hos-
pital. It occurred to him that Crawley had let
slip a little clue about his past. He too had
fought against Scorpia. Had he once been a
field agent himself? Alex described the fight
in the hospital, his meeting with Kaspar in
the derelict flat, the ransom demand and his
escape from the fire. Crawley blinked several
times as Alex spoke but didn’t interrupt.

“Well, that’s quite an adventure,” he com-
mented, when Alex had finished. “I remem-
ber when you and I first met. I could see
straight away you were something special. I
knew your father. I wasn’t allowed to tell you

133/539
that before. I worked with him a couple of
times.”

“In the field?”

“Yes. That was before…” Crawley ran a hand
through his hair. “Well, I got hurt and had to
stop. But you’re just like him. Remarkable.
Anyway, I have a few questions and then I’ll
leave you in peace.” He had turned the tape
recorder off; now he switched it back on.
“The man who interrogated you. You say he
called himself Kaspar. Can you describe
him?”

“That’s easy, Mr Crawley. He hasn’t got the
sort of face you’d forget.”

“Tattoos?”

“Yes.” Alex described the man who had come
so close to removing his little finger.

“And he definitely told you that he represen-
ted Force Three.”

134/539
“Yes. He talked a lot about global warming
and that sort of thing.”

“I would have said he rather added to it by
setting fire to the building.”

“I thought so too.”

“What else can you tell me about him? Did
he speak with an accent?”

Alex thought back. “I don’t think he was
English. He might have had a slight French
accent. I’m not sure.”

Crawley nodded. “Just one more question.
The other three men in the tower block. You
call them Combat Jacket, Spectacles and Sil-
ver Tooth. Did you hear any names?”

“No. I’m afraid not.”

“Thank you, Alex.” Crawley pressed a button
on the tape recorder. There was a click as it
stopped turning.

135/539
“So who is Kaspar? Who are Force Three?
What was it all about?”

“It’s a long story.”

“I’m not going anywhere.”

“Well,” Crawley began. “Let’s start with
Nikolei Drevin. I suppose you know who he
is.”

“I’ve heard of him. He’s
multimillionaire.”

a Russian

“Born in Russia, yes. But he’s more of a
multi-billionaire, as a matter of fact. An ab-
solutely wonderful man.

He lives in England a lot of the time, and he’s
made it clear that he likes to think of himself
as English.”

“He bought a football club.”

“Stratford East. That’s right. Nobody had
ever heard of them but he’s forked out for
some of the best players in the world and

136/539
now they’re in the Premiership. He has a
huge place in Oxfordshire, a penthouse near
Tower Bridge and houses all over the world.
He even has his own island out in the
Caribbean.

Flamingo Bay. That’s where the launches
take place.”

“Ark Angel,” Alex said.

“Ark Angel is the name of the space hotel
that he’s building. It’s being put together
piece by piece, and he has to send rockets up
every now and then with the next compon-
ent. You may not know this, Alex, but the
British government are partners in the pro-
ject and it means a great deal to them. The
first hotel in space and it’ll be flying a British
flag! Ten years from now, commercial space
travel will be a reality. In fact, it already is.
An American businessman has already gone
into outer space. Paid twenty million dollars
for the privilege. Once Ark Angel is up and

137/539
running, more will follow. The most power-
ful and influential people in the world will be
queuing up for tickets, and we’ll be the ones
supplying them.”

“Kaspar mentioned outer space,” Alex said.
“He didn’t seem too happy about the idea.”

“Kaspar is a fanatic,” Crawley replied. “It’s
true that a few wild birds got wiped out on
Flamingo Bay when the launch pad was set
up. As a matter of fact, there aren’t any
flamingos there any more. Friends of the
Earth and the World Wildlife Fund got a bit
upset about it, but you don’t see them going
around murdering people. Force Three’s a
different matter.”

“What do you know about them?”

Crawley scowled. “Not a lot. Before this year,
nobody had ever heard of them. Then a wo-
man in Germany wrote an article about them
in Der Spiegel and a few days later she was
shot in the street. The same thing happened

138/539
in London just over a week ago. A chap by
the name of Max Webber denounced them at
a conference on international security and
got blown up as a result. We’re looking into
both deaths right now

—that’s why Mrs Jones is in Berlin. Force
Three seems to be something quite new. Eco-
terrorists … I suppose that’s what you’d call
them. It’s all very alarming.”

“What about Kaspar?”

“Apart from what you’ve told us, we hardly
know anything about him.”

“Well, he should be easy enough to catch.” It
was something that had puzzled Alex from
the start. The tattoos. “With a face like his,
you’ll be able to spot him a mile away.”

“At least we know what we’re looking for. As
for Drevin, he can take care of himself, I ima-
gine. He’s got plenty of security out on

139/539
Flamingo Bay. Our real worry is that Force
Three might have a crack at Ark Angel.

They’ve already blown up a car manufactur-
ing plant, a research centre and quite a few
other installations.

Of course, they’ll have their work cut out.
After all, Ark Angel is three hundred miles
up in outer space. But none of this is any
concern of yours.”

Crawley stood up. “You did a superb job,
Alex,” he said. “I’m sure Drevin is enorm-
ously grateful. I wouldn’t be surprised if a
large cheque didn’t turn up in the post. At
the very least, you might get a couple of tick-
ets to see Stratford East play.”

“I don’t want a cheque,” Alex said. “I just
want to go home.”

“I hear the doctor says you can leave this
evening.” Crawley slid the tape recorder into
his pocket. “I’ve stayed long enough,” he

140/539
said. “Very good to see you, Alex. I’m sure
we’ll meet again.”

I’m sure we’ll meet again.

Alex remembered the words now as he ate
his scrambled eggs. Did Crawley really think
he would ever work for MI6 again? If so he
was very much mistaken. The strange thing
was, he could think of dozens of boys at
Brookland School who probably dreamt
about being a spy. They’d imagine it would
be fun. Alex had discovered the unpleasant
reality. He’d been hurt, threatened, manipu-
lated, shot at, beaten up and almost killed.
He’d found himself in a world where he
couldn’t believe anybody and where nothing
was quite what it seemed. And he’d had
enough. In two years he would be taking his
GCSEs. From now on he was going to keep
his head down, and the next time four terror-
ist kidnappers broke into a hospital he’d
simply turn over and go back to sleep!

141/539
Jack Starbright had almost finished eating
and Alex realized she hadn’t said a word
since she had sat down. She’d been very
quiet when she picked him up from hospital
too.

“Jack, are you angry with me?” he asked.
“No,” she said. But the single word told him
the exact opposite.

Alex put down his knife and fork. “I’m
sorry.” Jack sighed. “I don’t know what to
say to you, Alex,” she said. “I’m not sure I
can look after you any more.”

“Are you going back to America?”

“No! I don’t know.” She looked at him sadly.
“You have no idea what it’s been like for me
recently. First you tell me you’re going on va-
cation in Venice. The next thing I know,
you’ve got caught up with some international
band of criminals and then you get shot.
How do you think I felt when they told me?
But somehow you pull through and you’re in

142/539
hospital, and any other kid would just stay
there and get better.

But not you! You have to take on a gang of
kidnappers and nearly get killed all over
again.”

“It wasn’t my fault,” Alex protested. “It just
happened.”

“I know. That’s what I tell myself. But the
fact is, I feel completely useless.” She fell si-
lent. “And I don’t want to be sitting here next
time when they tell me you didn’t make it. I
couldn’t bear that.”

Alex went over to her. “There isn’t going to
be a next time,” he said. “And you’re not use-
less, Jack. I don’t know what I’d do without
you. There’s no one else to look after me.
And it’s not just that. I sometimes think
you’re the only person who really knows me.
I only feel normal when I’m with you.”

143/539
Jack stood up and gave him a hug. “Just my
luck,” she said ruefully. “All the fourteen-
year-olds in the world, and I end up looking
after you.”

The phone rang in the hall.

“I’ll get it,” she said.

Alex took the plates over to the dishwasher
and began to stack them. About two minutes
later, Jack came back in. There was an odd
look on her face.

“Who was it?” he asked.

“It was for you. I don’t believe it! That was
Nikolei Drevin.”

“He rang himself?”

“Yes. He’s invited you to have tea with him
this afternoon. He’s giving a press confer-
ence at the Waterfront Hotel and he wanted
to know if you’d come along and meet him
afterwards.”

144/539

“What did you say?”

“Well, I told him I’d ask you and he said he’d
send a car.” She shrugged. “I guess he expec-
ted you to say yes.”

Alex thought for a moment. Mr Crawley had
said that Drevin would probably get in touch.
“Do you think I should go?”

Jack sighed. “I don’t know. I suppose he
wants to thank you. After all, you saved him
one million pounds.

And you stopped his son getting hurt.”

Alex remembered Paul Drevin. He wondered
if the other boy would be at the hotel.

“I could call him back and say you’re too
tired,” Jack added.

For a moment, Alex was tempted. The last
time he’d met a multimillionaire, it had been
Damian Cray—and the experience had nearly
killed him. On the other hand, this was dif-
ferent. Drevin was a target. It was the man

145/539
called Kaspar who was the enemy. And it was
fair enough that Drevin should want to meet
him after what had happened. Alex felt awk-
ward about saying no.

Sometimes it’s the tiniest things that can
mean the difference between life and death.
A few centimetres of kerb had saved Alex
when he stepped off the pavement on Liver-
pool Street just as a sniper fired at him.

Now two words were going to drag him back
into the world he thought he’d left behind.
“Let’s go.”

AT THE WATERFRONT

The Waterfront Hotel was brand new—a sil-
ver and glass tower rising above the Thames
at St Katharine’s Dock. Looking up the river,
Alex could see Tower Bridge with HMS Bel-
fast moored near by. He didn’t look the other
way. He was only a few miles from where
he’d been held prisoner. He didn’t need any
reminder of that.

Behind him, Jack Starbright stepped out of
the ordinary London taxi that had brought
them here. At first she had been a little dis-
gruntled. “So what happened to the Rolls-
Royce?” she wondered out loud. But in the
end she agreed that Drevin had made the
right decision. The last thing either of them
wanted was to make a grand entrance.

They walked into a foyer where everything
seemed to be white or made of glass. A young
woman was waiting there to greet them.

147/539
“Hi,” she said. “You must be Alex Rider and
Jack Starbright. Mr Drevin asked me to look
out for you.“ She spoke with an American ac-
cent. ”My name’s Tamara Knight. I’m Mr
Drevin’s personal assistant.”

Alex cast an eye over her as they shook
hands. Tamara Knight was twenty-five, al-
though she looked much younger. She was
not much taller than he was, with light
brown hair tied back, and attractive blue
eyes.

Alex felt that the formal business suit and
brightly polished leather shoes didn’t suit
her. He also wished she’d smile a bit more.
She didn’t look at all pleased to see him.

“Mr Drevin is still tied up with his press con-
ference,” she explained as she led them
across the central atrium of the hotel. Silver
and glass lifts rose and fell around them,
travelling silently on hidden cables. A group
of Japanese businessmen walked across the

148/539
marble floor. “He said you were welcome to
look in if you wanted to. Or you can wait for
him in his private suite.”

“I’d like to know what a suite costs here,”
Jack muttered.

Tamara Knight smiled coldly. “It doesn’t cost
Mr Drevin anything. He owns the hotel.”

“Let’s take a look at the press conference,”
Alex said.

“Of course. He’s talking about Ark Angel. I’m
sure you’ll find it interesting.”

She led them up a wide flight of stairs and
along a corridor until they came to a pair of
smoked glass doors.

Two large men in suits were guarding this
entrance. “We’ll slip in at the back,” Tamara
whispered. “Just take a seat. Nobody will no-
tice you.”

She nodded and one of the men opened the
doors.

149/539
Alex went through and found himself in a
wide,
imposing room with large windows
giving a panoramic view of the river. There
were about a hundred journalists sitting in
rows facing a long table on a platform.

The words ARK ANGEL had been spelled out
in solid steel letters, each one two metres
high, and there were photographs of the
earth, taken from space, suspended on thin
wires. Three people were seated behind the
table. One was the minister for science and
innovation. The other looked like some sort
of civil servant. Alex didn’t recognize him.
The man in the middle was Nikolei Drevin.

Drevin was unimpressive. That was Alex’s
first thought. If he’d bumped into him in the
street he might have mistaken him for a
bank manager or an accountant. Drevin was
a serious-looking man in his forties with wa-
tery, grey eyes and hair that had once been
fair but was now fading to grey. He had bad
skin; there was a rash around his chin and

150/539
neck as if he’d had trouble shaving. All his
clothes—his suit, his shirt with its buttoned-
down collar, the plain silk tie—looked brand
new and expensive. But they did nothing for
him. He wore them with as much style as a
mannequin in a shop window. Alex noticed a
gold watch on one hand. There was a ring
made of platinum or white gold on the other.

Drevin seemed dwarfed by his surroundings.
He was physically smaller than the two men
who were sharing the platform with him. The
minister had been answering a question
when Alex came in. Drevin was fidgeting
nervously, twisting the ring on his finger.
Tamara gestured to a seat and Alex sat down.
The minister finished talking and the other
man looked around for another question.

One of the journalists raised a hand. “I un-
derstand that Ark Angel is now two months
behind schedule and three hundred million
dollars over budget,” he said. “I’d like to ask

151/539
Mr Drevin if he now regrets getting
involved.”

“You are mistaken,” Drevin replied, and at
once Alex could hear the accent in his voice.
It was more pronounced than his son’s had
been. He spoke slowly, accentuating each
word. “Ark Angel is actually three hundred
million pounds over budget. This is a British
project, you must remember.” There was a
murmur of laughter around the room. Drev-
in shrugged. “Some difficulties were to be ex-
pected,” he went on. “This is the most ambi-
tious building project of the twenty-first cen-
tury. A fully functioning hotel in space! But
do I regret it? Of course not. What we are
talking about is the beginning of space tour-
ism, the greatest adventure of our lifetime. A
hundred years from now, it will not only be
possible to travel to the edge of the universe,
it will be cheap! Maybe one day your great-
grandchildren will walk on the moon. And

152/539
they will remember that it all began with Ark
Angel. It all began here.”

Another hand went up. “How is your son?
Does it concern you that the people who
tried to kidnap him are still at large?”

Jack nudged Alex. They had arrived at the
right time.

“I do not normally speak about my family,”
Drevin replied. “But I will say this. These
people—Force Three

—claim they are fighting for the environ-
ment. It is true that the wildlife on Flamingo
Bay was disturbed when we launched our
first rockets, and I very much regret that. But
I have only contempt for these people.

They tried to extort money from me. They
are common criminals and I have every con-
fidence that the British or European police
will soon bring them to justice.”

“Absolutely!” agreed the minister.

153/539
“We have time for just one more question,”
the second man said.

A bearded man sitting in the front row raised
a nicotine-stained finger. “I have a question,”
he said. “I’ve heard rumours that the federal
government of the United States is currently
investigating Mr Drevin.

Apparently they’re looking into certain fin-
ancial irregularities. Is there any truth in
that?”

“Mr Drevin is not here to answer questions
about his personal affairs.” The civil servant
scowled and the minister nodded.

Drevin cut in. “It’s all right.” He didn’t seem
concerned. He looked the journalist straight
in the eye. “I am a businessman,” he said. “I
am, you might agree, a fairly successful busi-
nessman.” That produced a few smiles.
Everyone in the room was aware that they
were being addressed by one of the richest
people in the world. “It is absolutely true that

154/539
the CIA are looking into my affairs. It would
be surprising if they weren’t.

It’s their job. But…”—he spread his hands—“I
have nothing to hide; indeed, I am willing to
offer them my full cooperation.” He paused.
“It is possible that they will find some irregu-
larities. I went out to lunch last week and
forgot to keep the receipt. If they decide to
prosecute me because of it, I’ll make sure
you’re the first to know.”

This time there was real laughter and even a
scattering of applause. The man with the
beard blushed and buried himself
in his
notebook. The other journalists stood up and
began to file out. The press conference was
over.

“He’s such a brilliant speaker,” Tamara
Knight said, and Alex couldn’t doubt the en-
thusiasm in her voice.

She led Alex and Jack back the way they’d
come, then across the atrium and over to one

155/539
of the lifts. Once inside, she produced a key.
The building had twenty-five storeys; the key
activated the button for the top floor.

The doors closed and they were whisked up-
wards at speed. Alex felt his stomach sink as
the
atrium disappeared beneath them.
Twenty floors up, the lift entered a solid
shaft and the view was blocked.

Another few seconds and they slowed down.
The lift stopped and the doors slid open.

They had arrived.

They were in a huge room with windows on
two sides giving breathtaking views over St
Katharine’s Dock, the yachts and cruisers
resting at their moorings far below. Tower
Bridge was close by. It looked unreal, a toy
replica, sitting in the afternoon sun. Alex
looked around him. The room was simply
but expensively furnished with three Persian
rugs spread over light wood floorboards. The
furniture was modern. On one side stood a

156/539
dining-room table with a dozen leather
chairs. A corridor ran past a black Bechstein
grand piano to a closed door at the end.
There was a sunken area in the middle of the
room with three oversized sofas and a glass
coffee
and bis-
cuits—had already been served.

table. Tea—sandwiches

“Quite a place!” Jack said.

“This is where Mr Drevin stays when he’s in
London.” Tamara Knight pointed out of one
window. “You see the boat third from the
left? The Crimean Star. That belongs to him
too.”

Jack gasped. The vessel was gleaming white,
the size of a small ocean liner. “Have you
been on board?” she asked.

“Certainly not. My work with Mr Drevin
doesn’t allow me to enter his private quar-
ters,” she explained primly.

157/539
Just then the door at the end of the corridor
opened and Nikolei Drevin came in. It oc-
curred to Alex that there must be a second
lift, bringing him up to another part of the
penthouse. He was alone, hands clasped in
front of him, his fingers tugging at the ring.
“Thank you very much, Miss Knight,” he
said. “You can leave us now.”

“Yes, Mr Drevin.”

“Have you made the arrangements
Saturday?”

for

“I’ve left the file on your desk, Mr Drevin.”

“Good. I’ll
talk with you later.” Tamara
Knight nodded at Alex. “It was good to meet
you,” she said—but without a lot of enthusi-
asm. Then she turned and walked back into
the lift. The doors closed and she was gone.

For the first time, Nikolei Drevin seemed to
relax. He walked up to Alex and rested a
hand on each shoulder, and for a second Alex

158/539
wondered if he was going to kiss him. In-
stead Drevin held him firmly in what was al-
most an embrace. “You’re Alex Rider,” he
said. “I am very, very happy to meet you.” He
let Alex go and turned to Jack. “Miss Star-
bright.” He shook hands with her. “I am so
glad you were able to come. Please, will you
sit down?” He led them to the sofas and
picked up the teapot. “Tea?” he asked.

“Thank you.”

Nobody spoke while he poured. At last he sat
back and studied his two guests. “I cannot
tell you how grateful I am, Alex,” he said.
“Although I hope you will permit me to try.
You quite possibly saved my son’s life. Cer-
tainly you saved him from a terrible ordeal. I
am very much in your debt.”

“How is he?” Alex asked.

is well,

“Paul
yourself…”

thank you. Please, help

159/539
Jack took a sandwich but Alex wasn’t
hungry. He was feeling a little uncomfortable
being this close to Drevin. The man was only
a few inches taller than he was, and still
seemed very ordinary. And yet he radiated
power. It was the same with all the rich
people Alex had met. Their money, the bil-
lions of pounds in their bank accounts, spoke
before they did.

“I should be asking how you are, Alex,” Drev-
in went on. “I understand you were recover-
ing from a chest injury. A bike accident?”

“Yes.” Alex hated lying but that was the story
that had been agreed.

“Alex is very accident-prone,” Jack muttered,
holding up her sandwich.

“Well,
it was very lucky for me that you
should end up in the room next to Paul. I still
find it hard to believe that you acted the way
you did. But let me get straight to the point. I
am sure you know who I am. I don’t seek

160/539
attention, but the papers like to write about
me, especially when my team loses. I am a
very wealthy man. If there is anything that
you want in the world, Alex, I can give it to
you. I don’t say this as a boast. I mean it. You
have done me a great service and I would
like to repay you.”

Alex thought for a moment. “There’s nothing
I really want, thank you,” he said. “I’m glad I
was able to help your son. But it just sort of
happened. I don’t need any reward.”

Drevin nodded. “I had a feeling you might
say that, and I’m afraid I can’t accept it as an
answer. So I would like to make a proposi-
tion.” He paused. “I spoke to your doctor this
morning. Dr Hayward. You might like to
know that I have made a donation of two
million pounds on your behalf towards a new
cardiology wing at St Dominic’s.”

“That’s very kind of you,” Alex said. “So long
as they don’t name it after me.”

161/539
Drevin smiled. “Don’t worry! Dr Hayward
tells me that you must not return to school
for a couple of weeks. What I would like to
propose is that you come and stay with me,
as my guest. I’d be very glad to look after you
while you recuperate. I employ a full-time
medical staff, so you will be in safe hands if
any complications should arise. More to the
point, my chef is world class. Everything you
want will be given to you. Miss Starbright is
also very welcome.”

“I’m not sure—” Alex began. “Please, Alex!”
Drevin interrupted. “There’s something I
haven’t mentioned.

My son, Paul. He’s almost your age and he
told me that you spoke together a few times
in hospital. I know he would welcome your
company. Paul doesn’t meet many other
boys—that’s largely my fault. I’m afraid for
him. There’s always the danger that someone
will try to get at me through him. What
happened at St Dominic’s is proof of that. He

162/539
met you and liked you, and it would be good
for him to have someone else around for a
while. You’d be doing me a favour if you
agreed to come.”

He paused. Alex felt the grey eyes examining
him.

“I want to offer you two weeks with more
luxury than you have ever known in your life.
We’ll start here in England. I can’t leave until
the weekend; I have business and, more im-
portantly, we’re playing Chelsea on Saturday
and I can’t miss that. After that I’m flying to
New York. I have an apartment there, and
again there is some business I have to take
care of. You see? Paul is always on his own.”

He put down his cup and leant forward. Al-
though his tone hadn’t changed, Alex could
sense his energy and excitement.

in just over a week’s time,

“But
there’s
something you really can’t miss. We have a
launch at Flamingo Bay.

163/539
Have you ever seen a rocket being fired? It’s
an unforgettable experience. If the weather’s
right, it’ll blast off at exactly nine o’clock loc-
al time on Wednesday morning. It’ll be car-
rying the observation module for Ark Angel.
It’s taken us three years to build. It will be
the very heart of Ark Angel; the communica-
tions centre, a window like no other window
in the world. Paul will, of course, be there,
and I want you to be there with him. I have a
house on the island and the beaches are
spectacular. After the launch, you can stay
for as long as you like.”

Alex said nothing. He wanted to go. He had
never seen a rocket launch and it sounded
like the sort of adventure he could actually
enjoy—without anyone trying to kill him.
And yet…

Drevin seemed to sense his uncertainty. “I’m
sure Dr Hayward would agree that a bit of
Caribbean sun would do you good,” he said.
“Please! Don’t refuse me. I have to tell you,

164/539
I’ve already made up my mind and I’m the
sort of person who is used to getting his own
way.”

Alex turned to Jack. He still wasn’t sure. And
he was vaguely aware that something was
bothering him. It was something Drevin had
said. It didn’t add up. “What do you think?”
he asked.

Jack’s eyes were gleaming. She had obviously
been impressed by Drevin, the penthouse,
the Crimean Star.

“I think it’s a great idea,” she said. “A couple
of weeks in the sun are exactly what you
need. And I’m sure Mr Drevin will look after
you.”

“You have my word.”

Alex nodded. “OK then. Thank you.” He took
a sandwich. “But I think I should warn you:
I’m a Chelsea supporter.”

165/539
Drevin smiled. “That’s all right. Nobody’s
perfect. I’ll send a driver to collect you—shall
we say the day after tomorrow? He’ll drive
you down to Neverglade—that’s my house in
Oxfordshire. Paul is there now. I must call
him and let him know you’re coming.” He
glanced at his watch. “And now, if you’ll for-
give me, I must leave you. I have a meeting
at the Bank of England.”

“Is that where you have your account?” Jack
asked.

“One of them.” He stood up. “Miss Knight
will show you out when you have fin-
ished—and she’ll also arrange a car to take
you home. Thank you again, Alex. I know
you’re not going to regret this.”

Another twist of the ring. Alex had noticed
that his hands were never still. Drevin left
the way he had come in.

There was a long silence.

166/539

“Wow!” Jack exclaimed.

“Flamingo Bay…” Alex murmured.

“It’s exactly what the doctor ordered, Alex.”
She helped herself to another sandwich. “It
couldn’t have come at a better time.”

“Sure…”

But Alex wasn’t sure. What was it that was
bothering him?

Yes. That was it.

Paul Drevin was a target. That was what
Drevin had said. He was always in danger.

So why had he been on his own? That night
at the hospital, four men had broken in to
kidnap him. They had known he was there.

But there hadn’t been a single guard in sight.

THE LAP OF LUXURY

Welcome to Neverglade,“ Paul Drevin said.

Alex stepped out of the luxury car that had
brought him here and looked around. He
had seen wealth before. He had once gone
undercover as the son of a supermarket mag-
nate, which had meant spending a week in a
mansion in Lancashire. But this place was
something else again.

His first sight of Drevin’s country estate had
been a pretty but very ordinary gatehouse on
a country lane about twenty miles north of
Oxford. But even here, Alex had noticed the
high walls and woodland surrounding the es-
tate, and the closed-circuit television camer-
as rotating discreetly between the trees. The
driveway must have been a mile long, emer-
ging from the woods into fields so perfectly
mown it was hard to believe they were made
of grass. On one side was a lake with two jet

168/539
skis and a Lapwing wooden sailing boat
moored beside a jetty. On the other, partly
hidden in a slight dip, a miniature racing cir-
cuit twisted and turned, with its own grand-
stand for spectators. Four of the most beauti-
ful horses Alex had ever seen were grazing in
a paddock. The sun was shining. It was as if
the summer had returned.

And there was Neverglade. It wasn’t a house
but a fourteenth-century castle—with its own
moat, battlements,
towers and outlying
church. It was built of grey stone, with dark
green ivy spreading diagonally across the
face. Alex caught his breath as they drove to-
wards it and crossed the drawbridge.

The castle didn’t seem real. It was like
something out of a picture book. And why
had it been built here of all places? He
wondered why he had never heard or seen
pictures of it before.

169/539
Alex wished now that Jack Starbright had
decided to come.

She had seemed uneasy and deep in thought
in the taxi home from the Waterfront, but it
was only later in the evening that she an-
nounced her decision.

“I’d love to come with you, Alex,” she said.
“And I’d love to watch this rocket being
launched. But I can’t. I haven’t seen my mum
and dad for nearly a year, and I need to go
back home to Washington DC. It’s their wed-
ding anniversary next week, and this would
be a good opportunity to take a vacation.
You’re safe, and you’re going to be well
looked after. Anyway, you’ve got Paul Drev-
in. He’s your age and you won’t want me
hanging around. So go and enjoy yourself.
And just you make sure you don’t get into
any more trouble.

Rest and recuperation. That’s what the doc-
tor said.”

170/539
Nikolei Drevin had sent a uniformed chauf-
feur to pick Alex up—and this time he had
arrived in a Rolls-Royce, a pale blue Cor-
niche with a retracting hood. They had
cruised out of London and up the M40, the
6.75 litre V8 engine effortlessly gliding past
all the other traffic as if the roads had been
built exclusively for its use. Now the car dis-
appeared round the side of the house as Paul
Drevin came out to greet him.

The last time Alex had seen the other boy, he
had been wearing a dressing gown and pyja-
mas. Now he was dressed in jeans and a
loose-fitting jersey. He looked a lot healthier
than he had in hospital—but there was more
to it than that. He was more confident. This
was his home, his territory, and one day he
would inherit it. Alex had to remind himself
that this boy was probably a multimillionaire
himself. His weekly pocket money probably
arrived in a security van. Suddenly Alex

171/539
wondered if coming here had been a good
idea.

“Quite a place,” he said as they walked to-
wards the front door, their feet crunching on
the gravel.

“My father had it built here. The castle used
to be somewhere in Scotland. It was falling
down so he bought it and shipped it here,
piece by piece, and then put it back together
again. Come on, I’ll show you your room.”

Alex followed Paul into an entrance hall with
flagstones,
tapestries and a fireplace big
enough to burn a bus. As they climbed up a
majestic staircase, they passed paintings by
Picasso, Warhol, Hockney and Lucian Freud.
Nikolei Drevin obviously liked modern art.

“What you did at the hospital was amazing,”
Paul said. “Did you really mean to take my
place?”

“Well, it just sort of happened…”

172/539
“If those men had kidnapped me, they were
going to cut my finger off!” Paul shuddered
and Alex wondered how he knew about that.
The exact details of what had happened at
Hornchurch Towers hadn’t been in the pa-
pers. But he assumed that for a man like
Drevin, even the most classified information
wouldn’t be hard to get. “They nearly killed
you because of me,” Paul went on. “I don’t
know what to say.”

“There’s no need to say anything.”

“I’m glad you agreed to come.”

Alex shrugged. “Your dad made it difficult
for me to refuse.”

“Yes. He’s like that.” They had reached the
top of the stairs. Paul took out an inhaler and
puffed at it twice.

“I have asthma,” he explained.

“That’s bad luck.”

173/539
“This way…” They walked down a corridor
with ornate wooden doors at intervals on
either side.

“There are thirty bedrooms,” Paul told him.
“I don’t know why we need so many. They’re
never full. I’ve put you next to me. If you
want anything, just pick up the phone. It’s
like living in a hotel, except you don’t have to
pay.”

They came to an open door and went into a
bedroom with windows looking out over the
lake. The chauffeur must have come in
through another entrance; Alex’s luggage
was on the bed. The room was modern. Alex
took in the plasma screen television moun-
ted on the wall, the console with DVD, video
and PlayStation, the phone with about a
dozen buttons for the different services it
provided, a shelf of books—

all brand new by the look of them—the bath-
room with bath, power shower and Jacuzzi.

174/539
Drevin had promised him a luxurious life-
style and he had certainly been true to his
word.

“What do you want to do?” Paul asked.

“You tell me.”

“Well, we can go horse-riding if you like.
We’ve got two swimming pools: indoor and
out. Later we can watch a film. There’s a
cinema and Dad gets all the new releases. We
can play tennis or golf, or go clay pigeon
shooting. You saw the lake; we can go jet-ski-
ing or sailing or fishing or whatever. I sup-
pose I’d better start by showing you around.
That’ll take most of the day, and Dad’s hav-
ing dinner with us tonight.

It’s up to you.”

Alex didn’t know what to say. “I don’t mind.”

“Well, I’ll show you the house and then we
can grab a couple of quad bikes and I’ll take

175/539
you round the grounds. There are about two
hundred acres. Are you hungry?”

“No. I’m fine.”

“Then let’s go.”

“Right.” Alex tried to sound enthusiastic, but
somehow he couldn’t.

Paul had picked up on this. “I guess this
must be very weird for you,” he said. “You
don’t know me and you probably don’t even
like me. Not a lot of people do. They think
I’m a rich, spoilt brat and if they come here
at all it’s only because of all the free stuff. My
father invited you because he wanted to
thank you for what you did at the hospital.
But it was more than that. He’s hoping we’re
going to be friends and it’s the one thing he
can’t actually buy. Friendship. But I’ll under-
stand if you want to take your bags and get
the hell out of here. Sometimes I feel the
same.”

176/539
Alex thought for a moment. “No,” he said.
“I’m glad to be here. I can’t go back to school
and I’m meant to be resting for the next
couple of weeks, and to be honest, I’ve got
nowhere else to go. So if your dad wants to
treat me like a multimillionaire, I’m not go-
ing to complain.”

“OK.” Paul looked relieved. “We’re going to
New York on Sunday and that’ll be cool. And
then there’s Flamingo Bay. Have you tried
kite-surfing?”

Alex shook his head.

“I can show you how to do it. We’re on the
Atlantic side so we get huge waves.” Paul had
suddenly become more animated and Alex
found himself warming to him. “Let’s start in
the cinema,” he said. “We can work our way
down…”

Two hours later, they still hadn’t finished.
Alex had seen more wealth than he could
possibly imagine. This wasn’t how the other

177/539
half lived. There were probably only a hand-
ful of people in the world with the resources
of Nikolei Drevin. Anything he wanted he
could have—from the medieval suit of ar-
mour outside the dining room to the two
Polaris MSX jet skis out on the lake. He had
also learnt a little more about Paul’s back-
ground. He was an only child. His parents
had divorced when he was six and his moth-
er was now living in America. He saw her a
couple of times a year, but she and his father
never spoke. When Paul was younger he had
gone to an ordinary school, but in the end
there had been too many security problems
and now he was being educated by private
tutors. Part of the house had been converted
into a school. Alex had seen it and felt sad.
There were books and blackboards, desks
and computers. But no schoolchildren. No
shouting. No real life.

At five o’clock he went back to his room and
dozed for an hour,
then showered and

178/539
changed for dinner. He had seen the grand
dining room at Neverglade with its chan-
deliers and antique oak table long enough to
seat twenty—and he was relieved that they
would be eating in the conservatory next to
the kitchen. This was a pretty room with
marble columns, Italian tiles and exotic
plants in huge terracotta pots. Nikolei Drevin
was already there when he arrived.

“Please come in, Alex. Take a seat.” Drevin
was drinking wine. He had changed into
jeans and a denim jacket, and Alex couldn’t
help thinking that the clothes didn’t suit him.
He was somehow too old for them.

He was a man born to wear a suit.

“Will you have some wine?” Drevin asked.
“Or perhaps a beer?”

“Water will be fine,” Alex replied.

“In Russia, children drink alcohol from an
early age.”

179/539
The door opened and a young woman came
in, carrying the first course on a tray: melon
and serrano ham.

Alex had no idea how many people worked at
Neverglade; the servants had the knack of
staying invisible, except when they were
needed. He helped himself to iced water.
Paul arrived and sat down without speaking.
The servant left and the three of them were
alone.

“Has Paul shown you around?” Drevin
asked.

“Yes. It’s quite a place.”

“I bought it when I first came to your coun-
try. The original Neverglade was a sixteenth-
century manor house. There’s a story that
Queen Elizabeth I stayed there and saw a
production of Twelfth Night in the great hall.
But I wasn’t fond of the architectural style.
The house was too dark, and it only had elev-
en bedrooms. It was too small.”

180/539

“What happened to it?”

“A dreadful accident.

Drevin sighed.
It
burned down. This present castle rose out of
the ashes’or rather, I brought it here. I liked
it the moment I saw it. The only problem was
that it was in Scotland. But happily I was
able to do something about that. Have the
two of you decided what you’re going to do
tomorrow?”

“I thought we might go for a walk,” Paul said.

Drevin turned on him and Alex saw
something flash in the grey eyes. It was very
brief and he couldn’t be certain, but it was al-
most a look of contempt. “Surely you can
think of something more adventurous than
that!” he said. “Why don’t you take the
horses out? Or the dirt bikes? Of course,
you’re both recuperating.

Paul from his appendix operation. And you,
Alex”—the eyes came to rest on him—“from
your cycling accident.”

181/539
“Yes.” Was Drevin questioning his story? “I
went over the handlebars and hit a fence.”

“You must have been going very fast.”

“I was, until I hit the fence.”

“Then perhaps dirt bikes aren’t the best
idea.” Drevin thought for a moment. His fin-
gers were tugging at his ring but his face
gave nothing away. This was a man who was
used to keeping his secrets to himself.

“I’ll tell you what,” he said.

“I have a conference call tomorrow morning.
With the launch just over a week away, I
have to keep in constant contact with my
own people as well as NASA and, of course,
the British government. But in the afternoon,
how would you like to race against me?”

“On horses?”

“Go-karts. You may have seen I have a track
here. I built it for Paul, although I’m afraid
he seldom uses it.”

182/539
“I do use it,” Paul protested. “But it’s no fun
when you’ve no one to race against.”

Drevin ignored him. “I have several karts,”
he went on. “You’ll find it quite exhilarating,
Alex. You against me. What do you say?”

“Sure.” Alex didn’t much like the sound of it
but there was something about the way he
was being asked.

He’d felt the same when Drevin had invited
him to stay. He wasn’t really being given a
choice.

“And to make it more fun, why don’t we have
a bet? If you beat me, I’ll give you a thousand
pounds.”

“I’m not sure I want a thousand pounds,”
Alex said. It wasn’t the money that bothered
him; he just wasn’t sure he wanted to take it
from this man.

“Well, in that case I’ll give it to any charity
you care to name. But you don’t need to

183/539
worry. There is absolutely no chance that you
will win. Paul can be the flagman. Shall we
say two o’clock?”

“All right.”

Drevin picked up his knife and fork and
began to eat. Alex noticed that his son hadn’t
touched his food.

Already he could sense the gulf between
them. It was obvious with every word that
was spoken, every moment that they spent
together. Once again he asked himself what
he was doing here. And once again he found
himself wondering if it had been such a good
idea to come.

Two hours later, Alex was making his way
back to his room on his own. Nikolei Drevin
had gone out into the garden to smoke a ci-
gar. Paul had announced he was tired and
had already gone to bed.

184/539
He was walking down the main corridor on
the ground floor. There was a fully equipped
gymnasium and an Olympic-sized indoor
swimming pool at the far end, and Alex was
tempted to go for a swim before bed.

He wasn’t tired any more. He wanted to dive
into the warm water and wash away some of
the memories of his first day at Neverglade.
He was tempted to ring Jack Starbright. She
would have arrived in America by now. He
was still sorry she had decided not to come
with him, and he was worried he had let her
down.

Maybe he should have gone with her.

His path took him past the double doors of
Drevin’s study. Paul had pointed it out earli-
er but they hadn’t gone in. On an impulse he
stopped and looked left and right. The cor-
ridor stretched on, empty, in both directions,
its black and white tiles giving it the appear-
ance of the world’s longest chessboard. He

185/539
turned the handle. The door opened.
Without quite knowing what he was doing,
Alex switched on the light and went in.

The study was enormous, dominated by a
massive glass and steel desk shaped like a
crescent moon. The wood floor was partly
covered by a Persian rug that must have
taken years to weave. Behind the desk were
glass doors leading out onto the front lawn.
Alex counted four phones on the desk, as
well as two computers, a printer, several
piles of documents and a series of clocks
showing time zones all over the world. There
was one small picture of Paul in a silver
frame.

If Alex had hoped that this room would tell
him a little more about his host, he was dis-
appointed. Nikolei Drevin was very rich and
very powerful—but he didn’t need an over-
sized desk and a stack of expensive equip-
ment to tell him that. One of the walls was
covered with photos and Alex went over to

186/539
them. This was more like it. He had at least
found one tiny chink in the man’s impressive
armour. Vanity. The wall was a gallery of
celebrities.

There were photographs of Drevin with pop
stars and actors, photographs taken at glitzy
parties and de luxe hotels. He showed little
emotion in any of them, but even so Alex
could tell that he was quietly pleased to be
there. Here was Drevin with Tom Cruise,
Drevin with Julia Roberts, Drevin chatting to
Steven Spielberg on the set of his latest film.
He was in Whitehall with the prime minister
(who was smiling cheesily) and in Washing-
ton with the president of the United States.
Here he was shaking hands with the Russian
president—Alex was surprised to find him-
self looking at the bloated face of Boris Kiriy-
enko. The two of them had met when Alex
had been a prisoner on the island of Skeleton
Key.

187/539
The pope had given Drevin an audience. So
had Nelson Mandela in Cape Town. Some of
the pictures had been taken from newspa-
pers, and the headlines told the story of his
life in bold, simple statements: DREVIN
MOVES TO THE UK

DREVIN RICHER THAN THE QUEEN

DREVIN
OXFORDSHIRE HOME

BUILDS

£50

MILLION

DREVIN BUYS STRATFORD EAST

This Last headline was accompanied by a
photograph of Drevin with Adam Wright, the
England striker who had been his first major
purchase for his new team. Alex glanced at
the other articles.

DREVIN ANNOUNCES ARK ANGEL PLANS

DREVIN BUYS WATERFRONT HOTEL

DREVIN
MOVES
PROPERTY MARKET

INTO

LONDON

188/539

There was a movement behind him.

Nikolei Drevin had come into the study
through the French windows. He was still
holding his cigar and was examining Alex
curiously. “Alex? What are you doing in
here?” There was no anger in his voice. He
seemed, if anything, just a little perplexed.

“I’m sorry.” It took Alex a few seconds to find
the words. He knew he was trespassing. On
the other hand, the door hadn’t been locked.
“I was just on my way to bed. I hadn’t been
in here and I thought I’d take a look.”

“This is my private study; I would prefer it if
you didn’t come in here.”

“Of course. I was about to go but then I saw
these pictures.” Alex gestured at one of them.
“You’ve met the Queen.”

“Several times, as a matter of fact. She spoke
a great deal about her horses. I didn’t find
her very interesting.”

189/539

“And Nelson Mandela.”

“Ah, yes. A great man. He gave me a signed
copy of his book.”

Silence and suspicion hung in the air
between them.

“Well, I’d better go up,” Alex said.

“Can you find your way?”

“Yes. Thank you.” Alex smiled. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.”

Alex was feeling dizzy. His left arm was
throbbing.

He left the study as casually as he could and
didn’t stop until he’d reached his own room
on the second floor. He sat down heavily on
the bed. He knew what he had just seen. But
he couldn’t make sense of it.

The last newspaper cutting had shown Drev-
in wearing a fluorescent jacket and hard hat,
standing outside a derelict building in east

190/539
London. Alex had recognized it at once and
hadn’t needed the banner, stretching out
high in the background, to tell him its name.

Hornchurch Towers.

The building that had burnt down. The pic-
ture had been taken just a few days before he
had almost died there.

Either it was an incredible coincidence or
Kaspar and his men—the group that called
itself Force Three—

had deliberately taken him to a block of flats
that Drevin had just purchased. They had
thought he was Paul Drevin. They had been
planning to ransom him for the sum of a mil-
lion pounds. So why had they taken him to a
building that his father owned?

Alex undressed and got into bed. He couldn’t
sleep. He had thought he was meant to be
having two weeks in the lap of
luxury.
Looked after and safe—that was what Jack

191/539
had said. He was beginning to feel that both
of them might be wrong.

SHORT CIRCUIT

The building was in SoHo, at the southern
end of Manhattan. It stood between a del-
icatessen and a parking garage in a street full
of converted warehouses with metal fire es-
capes, and boutiques that felt no need to ad-
vertise. There were no skyscrapers in this
part of New York. SoHo prided itself on its
village atmosphere, even if you needed a city
salary to afford an apartment here. The en-
tire neighbourhood was
relaxed. People
walked their dogs or ate their sandwiches in
the autumn sun. There was little traffic. It
was easy to forget the noise and the chaos
just twenty blocks north.

Creative Ideas Animation fitted in perfectly.
It sold cartoons: cells from the Simpsons and
Futurama, original drawings from Disney
and DreamWorks. It only had a small front
window and there weren’t many pictures on

193/539
display. Unlike the other galleries in the
area, its front door was locked. Visitors had
to ring a bell. Even so, people would occa-
sionally wander in off the street, but once
they were inside they would find that the girl
who worked there was unhelpful, the prices
were ridiculous and there were better selec-
tions elsewhere. In the twenty years the gal-
lery had been there, nobody had ever bought
anything.

Which was precisely the idea. The people
who worked at Creative Ideas Animation had
no interest at all in art of any sort. They
needed a base in New York and this was
what they had chosen. SoHo suited them
nicely. Nobody noticed who went in or out.
Not that it mattered anyway. They owned the
garage next door and used a secret entrance
round the side.

At six o’clock that evening, five men and two
women were sitting round a conference table
in a
and well-

surprisingly

spacious

194/539
appointed room on the first floor just above
the gallery. The table was a rectangle of pol-
ished glass on a chrome frame. The chairs
were also made of chrome, with black leather
seats. Clocks showing time zones around the
world lined two of the walls. A large plasma
screen covered a third. The fourth was a
single plate-glass window facing a restaurant
on the other side of the street. The glass was
one way. Nobody at the restaurant could see
in.

All the people in the room were formally
dressed in dark suits and crisp white shirts.
Six of them were young and fit; they could
have just come out of college. The seventh, at
the head of the table, was more crumpled.
He was a sixty-year-old black man with
sunken eyes, grizzled white hair and mous-
tache, and a look of perpetual tiredness.

One of the younger men was speaking.

195/539
“I have to report a development in England,”
he was saying. “It may not be relevant, but as
you are aware, six days ago Nikolei Drevin
was targeted by the environmental group
Force Three. They were planning to abduct
his son and hold him to ransom but they
captured the wrong kid. It seems this other
kid got in the way on purpose. He actually
got himself kidnapped. Can you believe
that?” He coughed. “What happened next is
still unclear, but somehow the kid managed
to escape and Drevin decided to reward him
by making him part of the family. So now
he’s on his way over here. He’ll be travelling
with Drevin and Drevin’s son down to
Flamingo Bay.”

“Does this kid have a name?” someone
asked.

“Alex Rider.” It was the older man who had
spoken. “I think you should take a look at
him.” There was an unmarked file on the
table in front of him. He leant forward,

196/539
flipped it open and took out a photograph.
He passed it to the man sitting next to him.
“This was sent to me last night,” he ex-
plained. “This is the kid we’re talking about.
The woman with him is his guardian. He has
no parents.” One after another, the four men
and two women examined the photo. It
showed Alex Rider and Jack Starbright as
they entered the Waterfront Hotel, and had
been taken by a concealed camera at ground
level.

“The fact that Alex Rider has gotten himself
involved changes everything,” the older man
went on.
“I’m surprised Drevin hasn’t
checked up on him. It could be his first—and
his biggest—mistake.”

One of the women shook her head. “I don’t
understand. Who is Alex Rider?”

“He’s no ordinary kid. And let me say
straight off that this is to go no further than
this
you is

room. What

I’m telling

197/539
classified—but it seems we’re in a need-to-
know situation.” He paused. “Alex is an
agent working with MI6 Special Operations.”

A mutter of disbelief travelled round the
table.

“But, sir…” the woman protested. “That’s
crazy. He can’t be more than fifteen years
old.”

“He’s fourteen. And you’re absolutely right.
Trust MI6 to come up with an idea like this.
But it’s worked.

Alex Rider is the nearest thing the Brits have
to a lethal weapon.”

“So how come he’s got himself mixed up with
Drevin?” the other woman asked.

The older man smiled to himself as if he
knew something they didn’t. In fact, he was
only just beginning to work it out. “Maybe it
was a coincidence, or maybe it wasn’t,” he
murmured. “But either way it’s a whole new

198/539
ball game. Alex Rider met Kaspar. He’s been
at the heart of Force Three. And now he’s
close to Drevin.”

“You think he can help us?”

“He’ll help us whether he wants to or not.”
The man gazed at the photo and suddenly
there was a hardness in his eyes. “If Alex
Rider comes to New York, I want to see him.
Do you understand? It’s a number one prior-
ity. Use any means necessary to get hold of
him. I want you to bring that boy to me.”

Over three thousand miles away, at Never-
glade, Alex had just finished two sets of ten-
nis with Paul Drevin.

To his surprise, he’d been thrashed.

Paul was a brilliant player. If he’d wanted to,
he could have served ace after ace and Alex
wouldn’t even have had a chance. He’d pur-
posely slowed down his serve, but despite
Alex’s best efforts, the score had been three-

199/539
six in the first set, four-six in the next. Alex
would have happily played on, but Paul
shook his head. He had slumped on the grass
with a bottle of water. Alex noticed he’d also
brought out his inhaler again. At the end of
the last set he’d been struggling to breathe.

“You should join a club or something,” Alex
remarked, sitting down next to him. “Could
you play competitively?”

Paul shook his head. “Two sets is all I can
manage. After that my lungs pack in.”

“How long have you had asthma?”

“All my life. Luckily it’s not too bad, but then
it kicks in and that’s it. My dad gets really fed
up.”

“You can’t help it if you’re ill.”

“That’s not how he sees it.” Paul glanced at
his watch. “He’ll be at the track by now.
Come on. I’ll walk over with you.”

200/539
They left the rackets behind and walked
across the lawn together. A man drove past
on a tractor and nodded at them. Alex had
noticed that none of the staff ever spoke to
Paul; he wondered if they were allowed to.

“Aren’t you going to race?” he asked.

“Maybe later. If it was just you and me, I
wouldn’t mind. But Dad…” Paul fell silent as
if there was something he didn’t want to say.
“Dad takes it very seriously,” he muttered.

“How fast do these karts go?”

“They can do a hundred miles an hour.” Paul
saw Alex’s eyes widen. “They’re not toys, if
that’s what you were expecting. My father
had some business friends to stay a few
months ago. One of them lost control round
a corner and the kart flipped. They can do
that. I saw it happen. He must have turned
over six or seven times. He was lucky he was
wearing a helmet, otherwise he’d have been
killed.”

201/539

“How badly was he hurt?”

“He broke his wrist and collarbone. His face
was all cut up too. And you should have seen
the kart! It was a write-off.” Paul shook his
head. “Be very careful, Alex,” he warned. “My
dad doesn’t like to lose.”

“Well, I don’t think I’ve got any chance of
winning.”

“If you want my advice, you won’t even try.”

There was a question Alex had been dying to
ask him all morning and he decided this was
probably the right moment. “Why do you live
with him and not with your mother?”

“He insisted.”

“Do your parents really hate each other?”

“He never talks about her. And she gets
angry if I ask her about him.” Paul sighed.
“What about your parents?”

202/539
“I don’t have any. They died when I was
small.”

“I’m sorry.” They walked on for a while in si-
lence. “I wish I had a brother,” Paul said sud-
denly. “That’s the worst of it. Always being
on my own.”

“Can’t you go to school?”

“I did for a bit. But it caused all sorts of prob-
lems. I had to have a bodyguard—Dad in-
sisted—so I never really fitted in. In the end
he decided it was easier for me to have les-
sons at home.” Paul shrugged. “I keep think-
ing that one day I’ll be sixteen and maybe I
can walk out of here. Dad’s not so bad, but I
wish I could have my own life.”

They had crossed the lawn and there was the
track ahead of them: a kilometre of twisting
asphalt, with seating for about fifty spectat-
ors, and six go-karts waiting in a side bay.
Nikolei Drevin was already there, checking
one of the engines. There were a couple of

203/539
mechanics on hand but nobody else. This
race was going to happen without an
audience.

“Good luck,” Paul whispered.

“Ah—Alex!” Drevin had heard them ap-
proaching. He looked up. “Have you done
this before?”

“A couple of times.” Alex had been on the in-
door track at King’s Cross in London. “I
don’t think the karts were as powerful as
these.”

“These are the best. I had them custom-built
myself. Chrome Molly frames and Rotax For-
mula E engines; 125cc, electric starter,
water-cooled.” He pointed. “You start them
by pressing the button next to the steering
wheel. I hope you have a head for speed.
They’ll go from nought
to sixty in 3.8
seconds. That’s faster than a Ferrari.”

“How many circuits do you have in mind?”

204/539
“Shall we say three? If you cross the finishing
line first, your favourite charity will be richer
by a thousand pounds.” Drevin picked up
two helmets and handed one to Alex. “I hope
this is your size.”

Alex’s helmet was blue; Drevin would be
wearing black.

Alex slipped his on and fastened it under his
chin. The helmet had a visor that slid down
over his face, and protective pads for his
neck and the sides of his head.

“This is your last chance, Alex,” Drevin said.
“If you’re nervous, now is the time to back
out…”

Alex examined the go-karts. They were little
more than skeletons, a tangle of wires and
pipes with a plastic seat in the middle and
two fuel tanks behind. When he sat down, he
would be just inches above the ground. And
there was something else missing—apart
from the floor. He had already noticed that,

205/539
unlike the karts he had driven at King’s
Cross, these had no wrap-around bumpers.
Now he understood what Paul had told him.
The cars were lethal. The course was
hemmed in with bales of straw, but if he lost
control, if one of his tyres came into contact
with Drevin’s, he could all too easily flip
over—just like the friend Paul had men-
tioned. And if the engine scraped along the
asphalt and sparks hit the petrol tanks, the
whole thing would explode.

Drevin was waiting for his answer. Looking
at him casually holding his helmet, one
thumb hooked into his designer jeans, Alex
felt a spurt of annoyance. He was going to
race this man. And he was going to win.

“I’m not nervous,” he said.

“Good. We’ll do two practice circuits before
we start. Paul can signal the first and last cir-
cuits with a flag.”

206/539
Alex examined the course. It was a series of
twists and sharp turns with two straight sec-
tions where he would be able to pick up
speed. Part of the track rose steeply on metal
legs and then sloped down the other side; it
formed a bridge over another section of the
track below. Alex realized he would have to
slow down as he took it. He would be about
six metres up—and although the sides of the
bridge were lined by a protective wall of rub-
ber tyres, he didn’t like to think what would
happen if he lost control and hit them.

After the bridge, there was a long tunnel with
the finishing line on the other side.

He climbed into his kart and pressed the ig-
nition button. At once the engine burst into
noisy life. Already Alex felt horribly exposed.
The kart had no sides, no roof. He was sitting
with his knees bent, his feet stretched out in
front of him. He pulled a seat belt over his
shoulder and attached it. It was too late to
back out now. Drevin had started his kart

207/539
and was moving off smoothly. Alex tested the
pedals on either side of the steering column.
There were just two. The left foot operated
the brake, the right foot the throttle. His kart
leapt forward, the engine anxious to blast
him onto the track. Drevin was already well
ahead. Alex gritted his teeth and pressed his
foot down.

Nought to sixty in 3.8 seconds. Alex didn’t go
as fast as that on the first practice circuit but,
even so, the power of the engine took him by
surprise. There was no speedometer and be-
ing so low it was hard to judge how fast he
was really going. He guessed he was doing
about forty miles an hour, although it felt a
lot faster. The track was a blur. The whole
circuit seemed to have contracted as his vis-
ion telescoped. He saw the grandstand whip
past. The mechanics had stopped what they
were doing and were watching his progress.
His entire concentration was focused on his
hands gripping the wheel. His arms were

208/539
shuddering. He came to a corner and twisted
the wheel right. He felt the tyres slide behind
him and almost lost control. He was over-
steering. Quickly he corrected himself. The
kart entered the raised section and he found
himself climbing. Halfway over the bridge,
the track cornered sharply to the left. Alex
swerved round and the wall of black tyres
shimmered past. He had almost hit them.
Already he regretted accepting this absurd
challenge. He had only just come out of hos-
pital. One mistake at this speed and he
would be heading right back.

He completed his first circuit and began an-
other. There was no sign of Drevin, and Alex
wondered if he had left the track. Then there
was a roar behind him and the Russian over-
took, his face hidden beneath the black hel-
met. He had managed two complete circuits
in the time that Alex had done one and a
half. There was clearly going to be no contest
unless Alex put his foot down. How fast had

209/539
Paul said the karts could go? A hundred
miles an hour. Madness!

And there was Paul, positioned on the grand-
stand, a chequered flag in his hand. Drevin
had slowed down, waiting for Alex to catch
up. The race was about to begin. Well, at
least Alex had had a chance to test the worst
corners and bends. He’d begun to work out
his race line. And it occurred to him that he
might have one big advantage over Drevin.
He weighed a lot less than him. That would
give him the edge when it came to speed.

But there was no time for further thought.
The flag fell. They were off.

Forty miles an hour—fifty—sixty. Just inches
above the blur of the tarmac, Alex pressed
his right foot down as far as it would go and
felt the burst of power behind him. He
quickly caught up with Drevin. They came to
a bend. Drevin took it tight, hugging the in-
side. Alex shot
round the outside and

210/539
suddenly he was in the lead as he screamed
through the tunnel. So he was right: his
weight would make the vital difference. Now
all he had to do was stay ahead for the next
two laps and he would win.

He had just begun the second circuit when
his kart shuddered. For a moment, Alex
thought the engine had misfired. Then it
happened again, harder this time. He felt
himself being jerked back in his seat and the
bones in his neck rattled. The tyres slewed
and he had to fight for control. A third
knock. At this speed it felt as if he had been
hit by a sledgehammer. He glanced back and
realized what was happening. Drevin was
bumping him from behind. He was being
quite methodical about it; he wasn’t trying to
overtake. They were doing seventy miles an
hour, suspended in the middle of a bare steel
frame that offered no protection at all. Did
Drevin want to kill them both?

211/539
Alex braked and immediately Drevin soared
ahead, shooting up the raised section of the
track, Alex followed, looking for an oppor-
tunity to slip past him. But Drevin was cheat-
ing again, zigzag-ing left and right, refusing
to give him any space. They roared down the
slope and onto the straight, then plunged in-
to the tunnel. After the bright sun-light, it
was very dark inside. Alex accelerated and
drew level with Drevin.

Drevin twisted his wheel and crashed side-
ways into Alex.

The whole world leapt. Sparks exploded in
the darkness as metal tore into metal. The
walls of the tunnel rushed past. Desperately
Alex fought for control, and as the two karts
burst out into day-light, he dropped back.
Once again Drevin had the lead.

Out of the corner of his eye, Alex saw Paul
wave the flag, signalling the third and final
circuit. The race seemed to have lasted only

212/539
seconds—and it looked as if Drevin had it in
the bag. Alex thought about letting him go.
What did it matter who won? After all, this
was Drevin’s toy. Drevin was paying the bills.
It might be polite to lose.

But something inside him rebelled against
the idea. He stamped down, urging his kart
on. Once more he drew level with his oppon-
ent. Now the two karts were side by side,
heading up the ramp for the last time.

Alex saw Drevin glance across and then
wrench at his steering wheel. Alex under-
stood at once what he was doing: Drevin was
trying to knock him into the tyres and over
the edge! For a horrible moment, Alex saw
himself somersaulting sideways in his kart.
He saw the world turning upside down and
heard the grinding of metal as he hit the tar-
mac below. Would Drevin really kill him just
to win a race? His nerves screamed at him.
Stop now! This was stupid. He had nothing
to prove.

213/539
Drevin slammed into him again. That was it.
There was no way Alex was going to let the
Russian billionaire win. He touched the
brake, as if accepting defeat. Drevin shot
ahead, swerving round the corner.

Then Alex accelerated. But he didn’t turn the
wheel. Instead he aimed straight for the wall
of tyres. He hit them head-on and, yelling
out loud, soared into the air. For a brief mo-
ment he hung in space. Black tyres cascaded
all around him, spinning away like oversized
coins. Then he was falling. The tarmac
rushed up to greet him. There was a bone-
shuddering crash as he hit the track below,
and Alex was slammed into his seat. The
steering wheel twisted in his hands, trying to
pull away as he struggled for control. Some-
how the kart kept going. Tyres bounced all
around and he was forced to swerve wildly.
But he had done it. He had cut the corner
and now he was ten metres ahead of Drevin.

214/539
The tunnel
loomed in front of him. He
roared into the darkness and out the other
side, across the finishing line. He slammed
on his brakes. Too hard. The kart slewed
round in an uncontrollable spin and stopped.

The engine stalled. But the race was over.

Alex had won.

A few seconds later, Drevin pulled up next to
him. He tore off his helmet. He was sweating
heavily; his hair was plastered to his scalp.
He was furious.

“You cheated!” he exclaimed. “You missed
part of the track.”

“You pushed me,” Alex protested. “It wasn’t
my fault.”

“We will race again!”

“No thanks.” Alex had removed his helmet,
glad to feel the breeze on his face. “It was a
lot of fun but I think I’ve had enough.” He
climbed out of the kart. The mechanics were

215/539
hovering beside the track, wondering if they
should approach.

Paul arrived, still carrying the flag. “I can’t
believe what I just saw! That was amazing,
Alex. But you could have been killed!”

“The race is void,” Drevin said. “I did not
lose!”

“Well, you didn’t win either,” Alex muttered.

Paul stood there helplessly, looking from one
to the other. Drevin considered for a mo-
ment, then shook his head slowly. “It was a
draw,” he muttered. Then he turned and
walked away.

Alex watched him go. “I see what you mean,”
he murmured. “He really doesn’t like losing.”

Paul turned to Alex, his expression serious.
“You should be careful, Alex,” he warned.
“Don’t make him your enemy.” He ran after
his father.

Alex was left standing alone.

INJURY TIME

By Saturday the race seemed to have been
forgotten. Nikolei Drevin was in a good
mood as he waited for another of his Rolls-
Royces—this one a silver Phantom—to be
brought round to the front door. It was an
important day for him. Stratford East, the
team he had bought
for twenty million
pounds, were playing Chelsea in the Premi-
ership and, although they had been compre-
hensively beaten three-nil by Newcastle only
the week before, Drevin was in high spirits.

“Have you always supported Chelsea?” he
asked Alex as they left the house.

“Yes.” It was true. Alex lived only twenty
minutes from Stamford Bridge and he had
often gone to games with his uncle.

“The club was almost bankrupt when it was
bought by Roman Abramovich.” Drevin

217/539
looked thoughtful. “I met him a few times in
Moscow. We did not get on. I hope to disap-
point both of you today.”

Alex said nothing. There was an intensity in
Drevin’s voice that suggested that, as far as
he was concerned, this was more than a
game. The Rolls-Royce pulled up and the two
of them got in.

Paul Drevin wasn’t coming. He’d had a bad
asthma attack the night before and his doc-
tor, who was based twenty-four hours a day
at Neverglade, had said he needed a day’s
rest. And so Alex found himself alone with
Drevin in the back of the car as they were
driven down the motorway to London.

“You have no parents,” Drevin said suddenly.

“No. They both died when I was very young.”

“I’m sorry. An accident?”

218/539
“A plane crash.” It was easy for Alex to re-
peat the lie that MI6 had been telling him all
his life.

“You have no relations?”

“No. Just Jack. She looks after me.”

“That is very unusual. But then it seems to
me that you are an unusual boy. It would be
interesting, I think, to have a son like you.”
Drevin looked out of the window. “How are
you getting on with Paul?” he asked.

“Fine.”

“He likes you.” Drevin was still looking away,
avoiding Alex’s eye. “I wish that he was a
little more like you. He seems so … aimless.”

“Maybe he’d be happier if you let him go to
an ordinary school,” Alex said.

“That is not possible.”

“Do you really think he’s in any danger?”

219/539
“He is my son.” Drevin spoke the words with
no emotion at all. He had summed Paul up.
There was nothing else to say. He forced a
thin smile to his lips. “But enough of that,”
he went on. “My team will beat your team.
That is all that matters today.”

An hour later, they turned onto the Fulham
Road and were forced to drive at a snail’s
pace through the thousands of people who
were arriving for the game, the Chelsea fans
in blue, the Stratford East supporters in red
and black. Alex was glad that Drevin’s Rolls-
Royce had tinted windows. Nobody could
look in. He had come to Stamford Bridge a
hundred times on foot and he’d always loved
the sense of belonging, that moment when
he became part of the crowd battling its way
through rain or snow in the hope of seeing a
home win. This was too comfortable, too
isolated. He would have felt embarrassed if
anyone had seen him.

220/539
They turned into the complex of hotels, res-
taurants and health clubs that had come to
be known as Chelsea Village, then swept
away from the fans, following a narrow pas-
sageway to the west stand. The car stopped
in front of a revolving door with the words
MILLENNIUM RECEPTION in silver above.
They got out.

Drevin had become more tense the closer
they got to London. His eyes and mouth were
three narrow slits and he was twisting his
ring in short, jerky movements.

“Here is Miss Knight,” he said, and Alex saw
Tamara Knight, the over-efficient personal
secretary he had met at
the Waterfront
Hotel. She was still dressed smartly in a jack-
et and shirt, even though she was at a foot-
ball match. Alex noticed she was wearing
black and red earrings: at least she hadn’t
completely forgotten her team colours.

221/539
“Good afternoon, Mr Drevin. Alex…” She
nodded at both of them. “Lunch is being
served on the third floor. I have your passes.”
She gave them two security passes marked
ALL ACCESS + T.

“What does the T stand for?” Alex asked.

“I presume it means you can go through the
tunnel,” Tamara explained. She sounded un-
interested. “In fact you can go anywhere you
like, except onto the pitch.” She turned to Mr
Drevin. “Good luck this afternoon,” she said.

“Thank you, Miss Knight.”

They went into what could have been the foy-
er of a very smart health club, with a dark
wooden desk, a turnstile and a wide corridor
with two oversized lifts. A uniformed secur-
ity guard and a receptionist watched them as
Tamara called the lift. They travelled up to
the third floor in silence.

222/539
Alex realized that he was entering hallowed
ground. This was where the directors, chair-
men, managers and corporate sponsors
came. Normally he wouldn’t have been al-
lowed anywhere near.

Yet still he felt ill at ease. Drevin might have
forgotten the kart race but he hadn’t. It
seemed to Alex that the more he learnt about
him, the less attractive he became. An abso-
lutely wonderful man. That was how Crawley
had described him. Well, MI6 had said much
the same about Damian Cray. Alex knew that
Drevin was a bad loser, and he had dark feel-
ings about this match which he couldn’t
shake off.

“How are you enjoying your stay with Mr
Drevin?” Tamara asked suddenly.

“It’s fine.”

“I hope you’re keeping out of trouble.”

223/539
Was she trying to tell him something? Alex
examined the attractive blue eyes, but they
were giving nothing away.

The lift doors opened and they walked out
into a corridor lined with dark wooden pan-
els, and into a dining room with a buffet
table on one side. Waitresses were circulat-
ing with champagne. Unlike the rest of the
complex, the room was old-fashioned with a
moulded ceiling and a series of ornate,
smoked glass windows. But for the two wi-
descreen televisions mounted on the walls, it
could have belonged to the nineteenth
century.

Drevin accepted a glass of champagne and
sat down at one of the tables where about
half a dozen people, including the Stratford
East chairman and a couple of the foot-
ballers’ wives, were already seated. There
were about fifty people in the room.

224/539
Alex recognized a couple of television actors
chatting to the Chelsea chairman, who—un-
like Drevin—

looked completely at ease. A waitress gave
Alex a glass of lemonade, and he sipped it in
silence.

He found himself standing beside Tamara
Knight. “Are you a football supporter?” he
asked.

“No.” She looked bored. “I’ve never really
understood the British obsession with foot-
ball. Of course, I want Mr Drevin to win. But
otherwise I don’t really care.”

Alex found himself getting annoyed. Tamara
looked like a model or an actress. But she
like a cold-
seemed determined to act
blooded businesswoman.
“How did you
come to work for Mr Drevin?” he asked.

“Oh, an agency recommended me.”

“Do you enjoy it?”

225/539
“Of course I do. Mr Drevin is a very interest-
ing man.” She was unwilling to say any more
and looked relieved when the door suddenly
opened and a young woman came striding
in. Alex took in the blonde hair, the perman-
ent tan, the diamond collar necklace and the
perfect teeth. He recognized her instantly.
Her face was rarely absent from the tabloids
or the television screen.

Her name was Cayenne James and she had
once been a model and an actress. Then she
had married Adam Wright, one of the coun-
try’s most famous strikers and a member of
the England squad. Wright had made the
headlines himself when Drevin had paid
twenty-four million pounds to buy him from
Manchester United; he was now the captain
of Stratford East. Alex wasn’t surprised that
his wife had turned up to see him play.

He watched as she went over to Drevin and
kissed the air close to his cheeks, then sat
down and helped herself to champagne. The

226/539
conversation in the room had quietened
when she came in and Alex was able to hear
their first exchange.

“How are you, Niki?” She had a loud, school-
girlish, voice. “Sorry I’m late. I just popped
into Harrods. It’s only down the road.”

“Was your husband with you?”

“No! Don’t worry!” She giggled. “Adam’s
been concentrating on the big match. He
never comes shopping when there’s a game
coming up…”

More food was served. Alex was feeling in-
creasingly out of place. He was sorry Paul
hadn’t been able to come. It was half past
two. He wished the game would begin.

Half an hour later it did. The smoked glass
windows and doors were opened and every-
one walked out.

Alex went with them, emerging onto a stand
with about a hundred seats, one tier up,

227/539
exactly opposite the tunnel. And at that mo-
ment he was able to forget Drevin, Never-
glade, gokarting and all the rest of it. The
magic of the stadium, moments before kick-
off, overwhelmed him.

Stamford Bridge has room for over forty-two
thousand spectators and today, in the bright
afternoon sunlight, every seat was full. Music
was pounding out of the speakers, fighting
with the fans, who were already chanting
good-humouredly. Alex watched as a Mexic-
an wave travelled in a huge circle in front of
him. He had been given seat A10, perfectly
placed between the two goals. There were no
policemen in sight. Chelsea has its own army
of stewards but it didn’t look as if anyone
was in the mood for trouble.

Then there was a roar as the teams emerged
and formed two lines, each one accompanied
by a small child.

228/539
The referee and the two linesmen joined
them.

“You’re next
announced.

to me,” Tamara Knight

Alex sat down. He was determined to enjoy
the next hour and a half.

But it was obvious, almost from kick-off, that
it was going to be a hard, unfriendly game.
After just ten minutes, one of the Chelsea
players was brought down by a vicious tackle
that immediately earned Stratford East a yel-
low card. It was to be the first of many.
Chelsea dominated the first half, and but for
the hard work of the Stratford East keeper,
they would have soon taken the lead. Then,
half an hour in, the right winger gathered the
ball and sent it in a perfect cross to the pen-
alty area and a second later it had been
headed into the goal. The crowd roared; the
speakers blared. It was one-nil to the home
side, and just five minutes later the Chelsea

229/539
captain beat two defenders and powered the
ball into the back of the net.

Stratford East went into the break two goals
down.

There were more drinks served in the dining
room during the interval but Alex was care-
ful to avoid Nikolei Drevin. He remembered
how he’d behaved at the end of the kart race.
This was a thousand times more humiliating.
The game was being shown all over the coun-
try. Drevin had spent a sizeable fortune
building up his team. And the fact that he
was being beaten by Chelsea—owned by an-
other Russian—

somehow made it all the worse.

Cayenne James didn’t help. “Never mind,
Niki,” she said in her silly, high-pitched
voice. “It’s not over yet.

I’m sure Adam will be talking to the boys in
the dressing room.”

230/539
“It would be nice if your husband were to
touch the ball,” Drevin replied. He had a
glass of champagne but was holding it as
though it were poison.

“He does seem a bit tired today. Maybe he’s
saving his strength for the second half.”

In fact, Adam Wright was barely visible
when the game began again, and Alex
wondered why the manager didn’t pull him
off. He was playing in the centre but never
seemed to be anywhere near the ball, and
when he did take possession he didn’t create
a single opportunity. Alex knew that the
Stratford East captain had been given a bad
ride by the press. He should never have left
Manchester United. He spent more time
modelling clothes and advertising aftershave
than playing football. His last outings for
England had been dismal. Half the country
had turned against him, and perhaps it was
now affecting his game.

231/539
The next goal, when it came, was more of a
fluke than anything else. There was an un-
tidy scrabble in front of the Chelsea goal and
for a moment the ball was invisible. Then a
Stratford East player got his foot to it.

The ball deflected off another player’s thigh
and sailed past inches away from the Chelsea
keeper’s outstretched fingers. It wasn’t pretty
but it made the score two-one with fifteen
minutes left to play.

After that, Chelsea rarely lost control of the
ball. Alex found himself willing them on,
hoping they would keep their lead until the
final whistle. He knew it was ungenerous of
him; he was here as Drevin’s guest.

But Chelsea were the better team and he’d
been a blue all his life. He kept his emotions
to himself, though, resisting the temptation
to join the home supporters as they urged
their team on.

232/539
Full time. It seemed that Chelsea had it in
the bag. But then, out of nowhere, three
minutes into injury time, came the chance to
equalize: a foul inside the Chelsea penalty
area. One of the Stratford East players went
down, gripping his leg in agony, and al-
though Alex suspected he was faking, the ref-
eree believed him.

There was a blast of the whistle. Another yel-
low card. A roar of disbelief from the crowd.
But Stratford East had been awarded the
penalty. It had to be the last shot of the
game.

Adam Wright stepped forward to take it.

He couldn’t miss. He had taken penalties for
England countless times. Alex had watched
him perform brilliantly against Portugal in
the last European Championships, firing the
ball
into the net with breathtaking ease.
Surely he would do the same now.

233/539
A peculiar hush had descended on the stadi-
um. After making so much noise, it was as-
tonishing that over
forty-two thousand
people could be so quiet. Alex glanced at
Drevin sitting four seats away. The man’s en-
tire body was tense but there was something
close to a smile on his face. He knew there
was no way Stratford East could win this
game. But a draw would be enough. There
was no humiliation in a draw.

Adam Wright settled the ball on the penalty
spot.

The other Stratford East players were ranged
behind him. The Chelsea keeper was crouch-
ing, rubbing his hands together. The mo-
ment seemed to stretch out to an eternity.
The crowd held its collective breath.

Adam Wright ran his hands through his hair.
It was long this season, with blond high-
lights. The referee blew his whistle. A single,

234/539
short blast. Wright ran forward almost lazily
and kicked.

Alex watched in disbelief.

Something had gone terribly wrong. The
keeper had been misdirected and had dived
to the left, but the ball hadn’t gone anywhere
near the goal. A clump of grass and mud
sailed in one direction while the ball soared
in the other, passing at least a yard over the
crossbar. Adam Wright realized what had
happened and, even at this distance, Alex
thought he could see the shock in his eyes.
Then, slowly, everything seemed to unfreeze.
The keeper got to his feet, punching the air
with both fists. The other Stratford East
players stood where they were, stunned. The
Chelsea fans roared their pleasure; the visit-
ing supporters sat in paralysed silence.

And Drevin? He had gone very pale. His
hands were clasped together, his eyes empty.

235/539
A few seats away from him, Cayenne James
giggled nervously. “Oh dear!” she squealed.

Drevin turned to look at her and Alex could
see that he made no attempt to disguise the
contempt in his face.

And then it was all over. The referee didn’t
even bother with another kick-off. He blew
the final whistle and the two teams came to-
gether, shaking hands and swapping shirts.
More music pounded out as the screens
flashed up the final score. Two-one to
Chelsea. The stewards reappeared and the
crowd started to trickle out of the stadium.

Drevin was suddenly very much alone. As
Alex watched, he dug a hand into his trouser
pocket and took out a mobile phone. He
pressed a speed dial button and spoke
briefly. Alex got the feeling that he was talk-
ing in Russian, but even if it had been Eng-
lish, he wouldn’t have been able to hear
above the general din. Drevin’s face was

236/539
colourless. Whatever he was saying, Alex
doubted he was sending his team a congratu-
latory message.

Drevin put his phone away and stood up. He
seemed to notice Alex for the first time.

“I’m sorry,” Alex muttered. He didn’t know
what to say.

“There will be other games.” Drevin’s voice
was heavy. “If you don’t mind, Alex, I will
ask Miss Knight to accompany you home.
The driver is waiting outside. I have some
business to attend to.”

Tamara nodded. “Whatever you say, Mr
Drevin.”

Drevin went back into the dining room. Alex
took one last look at the stadium, at the great
rectangle of bright green grass, at the depart-
ing spectators. He knew it was unlikely he
would ever have this view of Stamford Bridge
again.

Something caught his eye.

The sun glinting off something. Somebody in
the crowd.

237/539

No. It wasn’t possible.

Alex looked again, then hurried down the
steps to the edge of the terrace and looked
more carefully, his eyes searching the milling
crowd. He knew what he had seen. He just
hoped he was mistaken.

He wasn’t.

Silver Tooth was standing on the edge of the
pitch. Alex looked down, shocked. The man
he’d knocked out with the defibrillator and
who had been there with Force Three when
he was interrogated was there, in the crowd!
He had been watching the game as if that
was what he did on a Saturday afternoon
when he wasn’t kidnapping people. Alex
watched as he slipped something into his

238/539
jacket pocket and then began moving slowly
towards the south stand.

Tamara Knight called out to him. “Alex?”

What should he do? Alex didn’t want any
more involvement with Force Three. He was
meant to be on holiday, recuperating. But he
couldn’t just let the man walk away.

He made his decision. He turned and ran
past her. “I’ll meet you at the car!” he called
out.

And then he was gone, through the glass
doors into the dining room, searching for the
way back down.

BLUE MURDER

Force Three were here at Stamford Bridge.

As Alex burst out into the open air, he knew
they hadn’t come to watch a football match.
They
Drevin
once—through his son. Was it possible they
were going to try again, this time by target-
ing his football team?

attacked

had

already

Alex reached the edge of
the pitch and
looked around. The crowd was slowly disap-
pearing through the various exits, like sand
trickling out of a leaking bucket, but there
must still have been at least ten thousand
people in the stadium. Now that he was at
ground level, he wondered if he would have
any chance of spotting the man he knew only
as Silver Tooth again.

Up on the giant television screens, Adam
Wright was being interviewed about
the

240/539
missed penalty. The Stratford East captain
had a boyish face; he could have been about
nineteen. He looked and sounded as if he
was sulking.

“…so I don’t really know what happened,” he
was saying. “I thought the ball moved just
before I kicked it.

The soil was a bit soft around the penalty
spot. I don’t know. It’s just one of those
things,
suppose. There’s always next
time…”

I

Alex glanced away from the image and that
was when he saw him. Silver Tooth was
wearing an orange Gore-Tex jacket. Perhaps
he thought it was going to rain. There was a
large gap between the terraces and the pitch,
and Alex saw Silver Tooth as he separated
from the crowd. He was walking purpose-
fully round the front of the south stand, not
making for any of the exits. Alex was able to
examine him properly for the first time. He

241/539
was in his twenties. Not English. His looks
were Middle Eastern. His hair was long and
dirty.

It wasn’t just his teeth that needed attention.
Alex followed him behind the goal and to-
wards the players’

tunnel. What was the man doing here? He
turned the question over and over in his
mind.

Silver Tooth reached the tunnel and disap-
peared from sight. Alex quickened his pace,
grateful
for the security pass around his
neck. A couple of stewards glanced his way
but neither of them tried to stop him.

It occurred to him that Silver Tooth must
have a pass too. If so, how had he got it? Or
was his simply forged?

He reached the tunnel, which was surroun-
ded by a sea of empty blue seats with the
press box just above.

242/539
Nine steps led down to an old-fashioned
metal and wire gate. In normal circum-
stances Alex would have given anything to be
here. He had watched his team emerge
countless times from right where he was
standing. He could picture the spectators in
their thousands, hear the chanting and clap-
ping swelling into a roar of excitement as the
players appeared. This really was the lion’s
mouth. But he couldn’t feel any excitement.
Despite all his resolutions, Alex knew that he
was getting into trouble once again. Trouble,
it seemed, just wouldn’t let him go.

Alex entered a modern, surprisingly empty
area with a ceiling so low it was oppressive,
and grey tiles on the floor. There was no sign
of Silver Tooth. There were a couple of
gleaming silver bins and a bench where in-
jured players
immediate
physio. The air was cold and sterile, end-
lessly recycled by a powerful air-conditioning
system. Everything smelled brand new, and

could receive

243/539
Alex recalled that the owner of Chelsea had
spent hundreds of
thousands of pounds
smartening the place up. He pushed open a
door and found himself looking into the
press room, a rectangular space with about
twenty seats facing a narrow platform. The
journalists had already left. There was an
outer room with two walls covered in care-
fully placed advertisements and he recog-
nized the spot where Adam Wright had been
interviewed only a few minutes before.

He tried another door. As he pushed it ajar,
he heard voices coming from inside. One was
all too familiar.

He held the door open a crack and looked
through. Yes. Combat Jacket was there. The
last time Alex had seen him, he had been
shooting at him with an FP9 single-action
pistol, blocking his escape from a blazing
building. Now he was standing with his back
to the door, hands on hips. Silver Tooth and
Spectacles were with him. They were

244/539
surrounding a fourth man who was sitting on
a bench, a towel wrapped around his waist.

It was Adam Wright. This was the visiting
team’s changing room. Peering through the
narrow crack—Alex didn’t dare open the
door any wider—he took in the blue padded
benches, the lockers, the vending machine
filled with water and Lucozade, the ultra-
modern showers and toilets on the far side.
The ceiling was low here too. Alex could al-
most feel the weight of the seating in the
stand directly overhead.

The Stratford East captain was the only play-
er in the room. The others must have left
while he was being interviewed, getting out
as fast as they could after losing the game.
Adam Wright was looking up at the three
men towering over him. He was clearly sur-
prised to see them.

245/539
“If you guys don’t mind,” he said, “I was just
going to take a shower. We don’t usually
have visitors in the players’ changing room.”

“We represent the Stratford East Supporters’
Club,” Combat Jacket said. “And we have
something for you.”

“A thank-you present,” Spectacles added.

“That’s right. To thank you for everything
you’ve done for the team.” Combat Jacket
took a sealed plastic box from his pocket and
held it out.

Adam Wright took it. “Well, that’s very kind
of you guys. But if you don’t mind, I’ll open it
later.”

“We’d prefer you to open it now.”

Alex was only a few metres away from the
Stratford East captain, who was sitting facing
him. He watched as the player opened the
box and took out a gold medallion on a
chain. It was an appropriate present.

246/539
Adam Wright wore more jewellery than most
women: earrings, bracelets and a different
necklace every day of the week. But none of
this made any sense. The three men in the
dressing room were killers. What were they
doing offering gifts to a footballer who’d just
blown a game?

“It’s really nice,” the Stratford East captain
said, holding up the medallion. It was round
and chunky, about the size of a mini disc.
There was a figure engraved on the front.
Himself, heading a ball
into a net. “It’s
great!” he exclaimed. “Can you tell the fans
that, you know, I really appreciate this.”

“Aren’t you going to put it on?” Combat
Jacket asked.

“Sure!” Wright slipped it over his head. The
medallion rested on his muscular chest. “It’s
quite light. What’s it made of?”

“Caesium,” Combat Jacket said.

247/539
Adam Wright looked blank. “Is that rare?” he
asked.

“Oh yes. Getting hold of it can be murder…”

Something nudged the back of Alex’s neck.
Alex stepped backwards, allowing the door of
the changing room to close, and he heard no
more of the conversation.

There is something about the touch of a gun
that is unmistakable. It’s not just the cold-
ness of the metal; it’s the whisper of death
that comes with it. Very slowly, Alex turned
round. He saw the gun clasped in two hands,
one of them swathed in bandages. He knew
that the man who held it had broken at least
a couple of his fingers. Alex remembered him
from the magnetic resonance imaging cham-
ber at St Dominic’s. He was short and very
well built. Alex had nicknamed him Steel
Watch, but the watch was no longer there. It
must have been broken when the man
crashed into the MRI machine. Alex was a

248/539
little surprised that the same thing hadn’t
happened to his neck.

“You!” Steel Watch was shocked to see Alex.

Alex raised his hands. “I don’t suppose
you’ve got the time?” he asked.

Steel Watch grimaced. He seemed unsure
what to do. He had been about to enter the
changing room; the other members of Force
Three were waiting for him. But he had a
personal score to settle with Alex.

He made up his mind. “You and I are going
to leave quietly together,” he ordered. “I am
going to walk behind you. The gun will never
be more than a few inches away. You will not
speak; you will not stop. If you try any-
thing—anything—I will put a bullet in your
spine. Do you understand?”

“Where are we going?”

“There’s a van. I’ll show you. Now move.”

249/539
Alex had no choice. He could see that Steel
Watch meant exactly what he said. He was
going to force him out of the stadium and
make him a prisoner for a second time. Alex
knew if he got in the van, he’d be dead any-
way. Both Combat Jacket and Steel Watch
had a score to settle with him. They were
adults. Professional killers. He was a child.
But he had beaten them twice. They were go-
ing to enjoy making him pay.

Steel Watch gestured with his gun and Alex
walked down a corridor leading away from
the tunnel. He had noticed that the man was
wearing a security pass just like his. It had to
be fake. There was nobody around, but even
if one of the stewards did appear, there
would be nothing Alex could do. If he called
for help, Steel Watch would kill him and
then run. There were still hundreds of people
milling around Stamford Bridge; it would be
simple to disappear into the crowd.

250/539
Briefly Alex thought about Adam Wright and
wondered what was going on inside the
changing room. But there was nothing he
could do for the footballer. He was more
worried about himself.

They left the building. The east stand was
now behind them, the terraces slanting up at
an angle from the ground. There was a high
wall straight ahead. Alex knew that the rail-
way ran behind it -the wall had been built to
keep out the noise. On the other side of the
tracks was a cemetery. Alex had been there
when his uncle, Ian Rider, was buried. He
had to think. If he didn’t do something soon,
he might well end up joining him.

Steel Watch jabbed the gun into the small of
his back, deliberately hurting him. He had
seen a couple of policemen standing on the
other side of the gates that led into the Ful-
ham Road. There was an endless queue of
people filtering slowly out of the gates. The

251/539
bars, restaurants and hotels were open. Alex
paused.

He couldn’t believe they were about to walk
through the middle of it all.

Steel Watch sensed his hesitation. “We are
going to start walking now,” he hissed. “Re-
member. The gun is out of sight. There’ll be
one shot and nobody will know where it
came from. You’ll be lying in the gutter and
I’ll be gone. Head out of the gates and across
the road. I will tell you where to go after
that.”

Alex began to walk with the wall on his left.
He turned the corner and saw the ticket
booths and souvenir shop just ahead. The
Stratford East fans seemed to have gone, tak-
ing their disappointment with them. But the
Chelsea supporters were in no hurry. It was a
mild evening and this was the place to be,
meeting friends, savouring the victory. Alex
knew that his situation would get worse with

252/539
every step he took. Right here, now, there
might be something he could do. There were
the two policemen, chatting together, un-
aware that anything was wrong. There would
be dozens more on the Fulham Road. But
once Alex moved away from the crowds, he
would be totally exposed. Steel Watch had
mentioned a van. Alex imagined the steel
door slamming shut behind him. At that mo-
ment he would be as good as dead.

He had to do something now, before it was
too late. He glanced over his shoulder. Steel
Watch was being careful, keeping a safe dis-
tance between them. The man had his hands
tucked under his jacket. It didn’t even look as
if the two of them were together, but Alex
knew that the gun was trained on him. If he
tried anything, Steel Watch would fire
through the fabric. He couldn’t speak; he
couldn’t turn. He had to keep moving.

The gates were getting closer. The Fulham
Road was beyond. One of the policemen was

253/539
giving somebody directions. But they weren’t
going to help him. What about the crowd?
Ahead of him, next to the exit, he caught a
glimpse of red and black. Two Stratford East
supporters in team shirts. One of them was a
skinhead with small, red eyes and a ruddy,
pock-marked face. He was scowling at the
departing Chelsea fans and Alex could see
that he would love to cause trouble. He was
swaying on his feet. He’d probably been
drinking. But there were too many police-
men around. All he had was attitude—and he
was showing as much of it as he could.

Alex was heading straight towards him with
Steel Watch close behind. And suddenly he
had a thought.

Steel Watch was keeping an eye on his every
movement. But he couldn’t see his face. He
couldn’t see what he did with his hands.

But the Stratford East supporter could.

Alex slowed down.

254/539
“Keep moving,” Steel Watch ordered in a
low, ugly voice.

Alex stared at the skinhead. He had once
read somewhere that if you stared at another
person hard enough, they’d become aware of
you. He had tried it often enough when he
was bored in class. Now he focused all his at-
tention on the man even as he continued
walking
through the
crowd.

forward, weaving

The man looked up. It wasn’t telepathy;
there was no real way he could avoid him.
Alex was about fifteen metres away, getting
closer all the time. People were crossing in
front of him—fathers with their
sons,
couples, fans dressed in the blue Chelsea
strip—but Alex ignored them. His eyes
drilled into the Stratford East supporter.

The skinhead noticed him. His own eyes
narrowed.

255/539
Alex’s hand was against his chest. With his
gaze still fixed on the man, he raised two fin-
gers slowly and deliberately, then dropped
one of them. Unseen by Steel Watch, he had
signalled the score: two-one. And he had left
his middle finger standing offensively up-
right. Alex sneered at the supporter, trying to
look as aggressive as he could. The supporter
stared. Alex repeated the sign. This was the
worst insult he could throw at the man
without opening his mouth.

Alex had been right. The Stratford East sup-
porter was drunk. He had watched his team
lose with almost as much disgust as Drevin
himself, and the botched penalty in the final
seconds had enraged him. And here was
some cocky little sod, a Chelsea supporter,
making fun of him! Well, to hell with the po-
lice. To hell with the crowd. He wasn’t going
to stand here and take it. He was going to
sort him out.

256/539
He lumbered forward. Alex felt a spurt of ex-
citement as he saw that his tactic had
worked. Behind him, Steel Watch hadn’t
realized what was going on. Things had to
happen very quickly; Alex needed the ele-
ment of surprise.

The Stratford East supporter stopped in
front of him, blocking his path. “What’s your
problem?” he demanded.

Alex came to a halt—he had no choice—and
he felt Steel Watch bump into him. There
was no longer any distance between them.

“I said—what’s your problem?”

Alex said nothing. He had been instructed
not to talk. Instead he twisted his face into a
sneer of amusement, mocking the man who
stood in front of him.

It worked. The supporter swore at him and
lashed out with his right fist. Alex ducked.
The fist flew past his head and slammed into

257/539
the throat of Steel Watch, who had been
standing right behind him. The gun went off.
The bullet hit the Stratford East supporter in
the arm, spinning him round. Panic erupted.
Suddenly everyone was screaming and run-
ning, aware that somebody had been shot
but not knowing who had fired.

The two policemen charged in through the
gates. Behind them a third policeman ap-
peared on horseback.

The horse whinnied and began to push
through the scattering crowd.

The Stratford East supporter was sitting on
the ground, clasping his injured arm. Alex
felt sorry for him, but he wasn’t going to
hang around. The instant the gun had been
fired, he had darted away, diving into the
crowd, weaving left and right, hoping Steel
Watch wouldn’t have a chance to shoot
again.

258/539
He had timed it perfectly. Steel Watch didn’t
dare try another shot. There were already too
many people between him and Alex. And he
couldn’t bring out the gun without drawing
attention to himself. There were police
everywhere. There was nothing more he
could do.

Alex ran on, past the Chelsea shop and on to-
wards the entrance where the car had
dropped him before the match. Tamara
Knight was standing there. She was looking
alarmed, and Alex wondered if she had heard
the shot. Then he realized she was staring at
him. She could tell
from his face that
something was wrong.

“Alex? What is it?” she demanded.

“Get help!” he exclaimed. “Call the police.
Whatever.” He took a deep breath. “You’ve
got to send someone to the changing rooms.
Adam Wright. I think he’s in trouble.”

“What? What are you talking about?”

259/539
“Force Three.” It was too complicated to ex-
plain. Drevin’s personal assistant was look-
ing at him as if he were deranged. Where was
he meant to begin? “Just trust me,” he
begged. “You need to get security over to the
changing rooms. Please! Believe me…”

Tamara gazed at him for a few more seconds,
summing him up. She didn’t look as if she
believed him. But then she nodded. “All
right, then. There’s a steward inside.” She
turned and hurried back into the west stand.

But it was already too late.

The three men had left the changing room.
Adam Wright was on his own. He fingered
the new medallion they had given him. He
had more than a dozen of them—in gold and
platinum. He’d always liked medallions, even
when he was a boy growing up in Essex. He
thought they suited him.

It was strange, though. Receiving a gift after
a game like that. Adam Wright
thought

260/539
about the missed penalty as he went over to
the showers. However you looked at it, he
wasn’t having a good season. Maybe it was
time to think about another transfer. He had
to be careful. If his game began to slip, he
might lose some of his advertising and spon-
sorship deals. And if that happened, how
would he pay for his next Ferrari?

He dropped his towel. Glimpsing himself in a
mirror, he smiled. He had a perfect body and
he liked the way the new medallion lay
against his chest. He was looking forward to
showing it to Cayenne.

He turned the shower on full. Hot water
blasted down. He stepped into the spray and
water battered his neck and shoulders. He
turned round.

The men who had given Adam Wright the
medallion had told him that it was made of
caesium. What they hadn’t told him was that
caesium is an alkali metal found in group

261/539
one of the periodic table. It does not occur
naturally. It has only one electron in its outer
shell. And, like all alkali metals, it reacts ex-
tremely violently when exposed to water. The
medallion had been given a coating of wax to
protect it from the atmosphere, but the wax
was now melting in the shower.

Adam Wright knew there was something
wrong when he felt an intense burning. For a
moment, he thought the water was too hot.
Then he looked down and, to his astonish-
ment, he saw a brilliant flame bursting out in
front of him. He opened his mouth to
scream, and at that moment the caesium
medallion exploded. The scream died in his
throat. With the water rushing down, he fell
to his knees, his hands outstretched, and for
a brief instant he looked just like a keeper
seconds after he has let the ball into the back
of the net. Then he pitched forward and lay
still.

262/539
Two minutes later, the door of the changing
room crashed open and a group of security
men rushed in.

There was nothing they could do. Adam
Wright was lying on the floor with water all
around him. Smoke was rising up beneath
his chest, creeping through his armpits.

The Stratford East captain and England
striker had taken his last penalty.

And the people who had come for him hadn’t
missed.

EXPIRY DATE

The following day, Alex was playing table
tennis with Paul Drevin. Once again Paul
was beating him. The score was fifteen-eight-
een and it was his serve. He fired the ball
down the table, trying to put some spin on it.
Paul lobbed it back. Alex went for the slam
and got it. The ball hit the corner of the table
and bounced over Paul’s bat. Sixteen-eight-
een. He was in with a chance.

The two boys were playing in the most ex-
traordinary room Alex had ever been in. It
was more than sixty metres long but only six
metres wide, an oversized cigar tube with
porthole windows running along the whole
length. Part of the room was carpeted, with
luxurious leather chairs arranged around a
coffee table, a drinks cabinet and a wi-
descreen TV. Then there was the games area:
complete with table-tennis table, snooker

264/539
table, PlayStation and gym. Next to it was a
small but well-equipped kitchen and, on the
other side, closed off, a study area with a lib-
rary and conference table where Nikolei
Drevin was now working.

And the whole thing was thirty-six thousand
feet above the ground.

Alex and Paul were on their way to America,
flying in Drevin’s private 747 which he had
adapted to his own needs. Forget cramped
seating and microwaved food on plastic
trays. The interior of this plane was beyond
belief. But for the noise of the engines and
the occasional
it would have
been hard for Alex to believe that he was in
the air.

turbulence,

He was glad to be out of England.

The death of Adam Wright had naturally
made the front page of every newspaper. It
had also been the lead story in all the news
programmes on TV. This time, Alex had not

265/539
been involved—and for that he had to thank
Tamara Knight. She alone knew that he had
seen and followed one of the killers at Stam-
ford Bridge, and when the body in the
shower had been discovered, she had de-
cided to keep this information to herself.

As she said to Alex, he’d been through
enough. Force Three had already claimed re-
sponsibility for the murder, explaining that
the footballer had been another victim in
their war against Drevin. What difference
would it make if Alex was dragged into it
once again?

Tamara was on the plane too, sitting in one
of the Leather chairs, reading a book. Alex
had glanced at the cover and seen the title.
She was reading a history of space travel, ob-
viously preparing herself for the launch that
was to take place in just three days’ time. She
glanced up briefly as he prepared to take his
next serve, then turned a page.

266/539
Alex lost the serve and, two points later, the
game. He wondered if they’d reached the
coast of Canada yet.

It had been almost five hours since they had
left Heathrow, and even with all the comforts
of the 747, he was aware that he was in that
strange, empty space, hovering on the edge
of the world between two time zones.

“Are you hungry?” Paul asked him.

“No thanks,” Alex replied. The plane had a
cook and two stewardesses, who had served
a brunch of fresh fruit, coffee and croissants
just after they had taken off.

“We can watch a film if you like.”

“All right.”

Paul put down his bat and slumped into one
of the nearby chairs. “It’s a shame we won’t
have more time in New York,” he said. “I
really wanted to show it to you. It’s a cool
city just to wander around in. And it’s got

267/539
great shops. I was going to buy a whole load
of gear.”

“How long are we there for?” Alex asked.

“Dad says just one day. He’s got some people
to see—or we’d be going straight to Flamingo
Bay.” Paul pressed a button in the arm of his
chair and a moment later one of the steward-
esses appeared.

“Can we watch a film?” he asked.

“Of course.” The stewardess smiled. “I’ll
bring you the menu. And would you like
something to drink?”

“I’ll have a Coke. Alex?”

“No. I’m fine.”

Alex sat down opposite Paul, avoiding the
other boy’s eye. It seemed to him that Paul
was more like his father than perhaps he
realized. Despite his protests, he fitted com-
fortably into this billionaire lifestyle, taking
the private plane, the houses all over the

268/539
world and the complete freedom for granted.
Right now the two of them should have been
at school. Alex thought of Brookland and a
big part of him yearned to be with his
friends,
larking around and getting into
trouble—back in the real world.

He was feeling guilty because, although he’d
said nothing to Paul, he had already made
his decision. As soon as he arrived in New
York, he was going to leave the Drevin
household. He felt sorry for Paul. More and
more the other boy seemed to be relying on
his friendship, taking him for granted like
everything else.

Paul hadn’t chosen any of this but he was
stuck with it, and one day it would be him
jetting around the world, making all the im-
portant decisions.

But Alex had had enough. Nikolei Drevin
had nothing he wanted. More than that, Alex
was becoming increasingly uneasy, aware of

269/539
an invisible net closing in. He had now en-
countered Force Three twice. He might not
be so lucky a third time. Whatever their ar-
gument with Drevin, he didn’t want to be any
part of it.

And then there was the question of Drevin
himself. There was so much about the man
that didn’t add up. If he was so concerned
about Paul’s safety, why hadn’t he put any
guards in place at St Dominic’s? And was it
just coincidence that the kidnappers had
taken Alex to a building that Drevin—or one
of Drevin’s many
companies—actually
owned? Alex thought about his meeting with
Kaspar. The Force Three leader had been
about to cut off one of his fingers—and
would have if Alex hadn’t convinced him who
he really was.

If Paul Drevin had been kidnapped, he would
have been maimed. Why? Was there some
sort of private vendetta between Nikolei

270/539
Drevin and Kaspar that both men were keep-
ing concealed?

Alex didn’t trust Drevin. That was the simple
truth. When they had raced against each oth-
er, Drevin had tried to kill him. If Alex had
flipped over inside the tunnel, he might have
been crushed—and all because the Russian
didn’t
like losing. He had lost again at
Chelsea, and as a result a man had died. Was
Drevin responsible for that too? Alex re-
membered seeing him talking on his mobile
seconds after the game had ended. And when
Alex had spotted Silver Tooth, he had been
slipping something into his pocket. Could it
have been a phone?

Was it possible that he had been taking his
orders directly from Drevin?

Well, he had decided. As soon as he arrived
in New York, he was going to call Jack Star-
bright, who was only a couple of hours away
in Washington. He knew she’d be happy for

271/539
him to join her, especially if she thought he
was in any danger. He would tell Nikolei
Drevin that he was homesick. It didn’t mat-
ter what excuse he made up. When Drevin
and his son flew to Flamingo Bay, they would
be travelling without him.

“Is everything all right, Alex?”

Alex looked up and realized that Tamara
Knight had been examining him. He still
hadn’t worked her out.

She had never been particularly friendly to
him and seemed completely devoted to
Nikolei Drevin. On the other hand, as far as
he knew, she had never told Drevin about his
involvement in Adam Wright’s death.

Right now, she was studying him suspi-
ciously. Maybe she was trying to work him
out too.

“I’m fine, thanks,” Alex said.

“Are you looking forward to the launch?”

272/539

Alex shrugged. “I suppose so.”

Paul had chosen a film. The lights in the
centre of
the cabin dimmed and a few
minutes later it began.

It was just after one o’clock. New York time,
when they touched down at JFK Airport.
Nikolei Drevin had come out of his study for
the last hour of the flight, dictating a letter to
Tamara and chatting to Paul. Part of the con-
versation was in Russian and Alex got the
feeling that
father and son were talking
about him.

The 747 taxied to a holding area. Looking out
of a window, Alex saw a chauffeur-driven
limousine waiting to meet them. He guessed
that a man as rich and influential as Drevin
wouldn’t have to queue up at immigration
with everyone else, and he was right. The
door of the plane opened electronically and
two men in suits—customs and immigra-
tion—were shown in. One of them had a

273/539
metal attaché case which contained a com-
puter and an old-fashioned passport stamp.

“Good afternoon, Mr Drevin, sir,” the man
said. He was young, clean-shaven, with short
blond hair and dark glasses. “Welcome to
New York.”

“Thank you.” Drevin held out his passport.
The man ran it through the scanner on his
computer without so much as glancing at it,
then stamped one of the pages. He did the
same for Paul and Tamara. He took Alex’s
last, gazed at the photograph and lowered it
behind the lid of his case. For a moment it
was out of sight as he scanned it, but then he
was holding it up again with a look of polite
puzzlement.

“I’m sorry, sir,” he said to Drevin. “We have a
problem here.”

“What problem?” Drevin was annoyed.

274/539
“This passport is out of date. It expired two
days ago.”

“That’s not possible.” Drevin reached for the
passport. He looked at the expiry date, then
at Alex. “The man is correct,” he said.

“No.” Alex was shocked. It was true he hadn’t
looked closely at his passport for a long time,
but he was certain he’d only had it four
years. There was an absurd photograph of
him aged ten; he remembered going with
Jack to have it taken. “It can’t be!” he
protested.

Drevin handed him the passport. Alex stud-
ied it. It was the same photo. The terrible
haircut embarrassed him as it always did.
There was his signature, and Ian Rider’s
name and address as next of kin. But the im-
migration man was correct. His passport had
expired the day before he left London.

275/539
“But how can it have happened?” Alex asked.
He couldn’t believe he’d been so stupid.
“Why didn’t they notice at Heathrow?”

“I guess they didn’t look closely enough,” the
American said.

“What does this mean?” Drevin asked. His
voice was cold.

“Well, sir, I’m very sorry but we can’t allow
your guest to enter the United States. In nor-
mal circumstances he’d be sent back home,
but I guess we can work something out. How
long do you plan to be here?”

than twenty-four hours,” Drevin

“Less
replied. “We leave tomorrow.”

“In that case, we can hold Mr Rider here at
the airport. It’ll be like he’s in transit. You
can pick him up again when you leave.”

“But the child only wishes to stay here one
night. Surely he can’t be such a threat to

276/539
American security that you won’t allow him
to stay with me!”

“I’m very sorry, Mr Drevin. It’s like I say.
Really he should be on his way back to the
UK. I’m stretching things as it is. But I can’t
allow him in.”

“I don’t understand it,” Alex insisted. “I only
got it four years ago—I’m sure of it.” He was
feeling wretched. Both Drevin and his son
were staring at him as if this were all his
fault, which, he supposed, in a way it was.

“It seems we have no choice in the matter,
Alex,” Drevin said. He turned to the immig-
ration officer.

“Where will you hold him?”

“We have rooms here at the airport, sir. He’ll
have a TV and a shower. I can assure you
he’ll be fine.”

“Then it seems we’ll have to pick you up to-
morrow, Alex.”

277/539
Drevin got up and left the aircraft. Paul and
Tamara followed. The assistant had said
nothing throughout
the discussion. Alex
looked out of the window as they got into the
limousine. A moment later they drove away
and he found himself alone with the two
Americans.

“Do you have any hand luggage?” the immig-
ration man asked.

“No.”

“OK. My name’s Shulsky, by the way. Ed
Shulsky. You’d better come with me.”

Alex followed the American down onto the
tarmac, the customs official close behind.
There was another car waiting for them and
Alex climbed into the back. Shulsky took the
front seat. The other man stayed behind.

“Just relax. This won’t take long,” Shulsky
said.

278/539
The doors had locked themselves automatic-
ally. Feeling far from relaxed, Alex sat back
and watched where they were going.

They drove out of
the airport, passing
through a double barrier and a gate. That
already struck him as odd.

Hadn’t Shulsky just said he was going to
have to spend the night at JFK? But it
seemed they were heading for Manhattan.
The driver joined the traffic on the freeway
that led to Brooklyn Bridge, and suddenly
Alex found himself looking across the water
to the most famous skyline in the world.
Even now, even in these circumstances, the
view couldn’t fail to thrill him, the magnifi-
cent arrogance of the skyscrapers packed to-
gether on the cramped, chaotic island a
monument to power and success and the
American way of life.

Alex leant forward. “Where are we going?”
he demanded.

279/539

“We’ll be there soon,” Shulsky answered.

“I thought you said we were staying at the
airport.”

“Relax, Alex. We’ll look after you just fine.”

Alex knew something was going on. There
had been nothing wrong with his passport.
He was sure of it.

But there wasn’t anything he could do. He
was locked in a car on the other side of the
world and he might just as well sit back
and—as the Americans would say—be taken
for the ride.

He looked out of the window as they crossed
the bridge and turned north, heading past
the terrible empty space where the World
Trade Center had once stood. He had visited
New York a couple of times and had happy
memories of the city. Now he was being driv-
en through SoHo, in south Manhattan.

280/539
The car slowed down and he noticed an art
gallery with a window full of cartoons, its
name printed in gold letters on the glass.
They turned into a parking garage. Alex
sighed and shook his head. Now he knew ex-
actly where he was.

In Miami they had called themselves Centur-
ion International Advertising. The gallery
here in New York was called Creative Ideas
Animation. Two different names but
the
same three letters.

CIA.

The car drove up to the first floor of the gar-
age and stopped. Shulsky got out and opened
the door for Alex.

“This way,” he announced.

Alex followed him to a bare metal door that
could have led into a storage cupboard or
perhaps an electric generator
room. A
keypad was built into the wall and Shulsky

281/539
entered a seven-digit code. There was a buzz
and the door opened. Alex walked through
into an empty corridor with a closed-circuit
television camera pointing down at him from
above and another locked door at the end. It
swung open as he approached.

There was a comfortable reception area on
the other side, and, beyond that, open-plan
offices filled with phones and computers.
Two telephonists sat behind the main desk,
and men and women in suits walked along
the carpeted corridors. A black man with
white hair and a moustache was waiting to
greet him. Alex recognized him at once. His
name was Joe Byrne. He was the deputy dir-
ector for operations in the Covert Action sec-
tion of the Central Intelligence Agency of
America.

“Nice to see you again, Alex,” he said.

“I’m not so sure,” Alex replied. He re-
membered how his passport had briefly

282/539
disappeared into Shulsky’s attaché case.
“You swapped my passport,” he said. “The
one you showed Drevin was a fake.”

Joe Byrne nodded. “Come this way. Let me
show you to my office. I think it’s time you
and I had a little chat.”

THE BIGGEST CRIMINAL
IN THE WORLD

Byrne’s office was identical to the one that
Alex had visited in Miami. It had the same
ordinary furniture, the same blank walls, the
same air-conditioning turned up one notch
too high. Only the view was different.

Alex guessed he probably had something
similar in just about every major city in
America.

“You fancy a drink?” Byrne asked as he sat
down behind his desk.

“Some water, thanks.” There were a couple of
bottles on a sideboard. Alex helped himself.

“It’s good to see you again, Alex.” Byrne
sounded tired. He looked as if he hadn’t been
to bed for a week. “I was never able to thank

284/539
you for the work you did for us on Skeleton
Key.”

“I was sorry about your agents.”

“Tom Turner and Belinda Troy. Yeah, it was
too bad. I was sorry to lose them. But that
wasn’t your fault.

You did a great job.” Byrne ran his eyes over
Alex. “You look in good shape,” he went on.
“I was sorry to hear you got hurt in London. I
told that boss of yours, Alan Blunt, that it
wasn’t a good idea getting a kid involved in
this sort of work. Of course, he didn’t listen
to me. He never does. In a way, that’s why
you’re here now.”

“Why am I here now?”

“We had to get you away from Drevin
without alerting him to the fact that the CIA
was involved,” Byrne explained. “Like you
said, we swapped your passport, so now he
thinks you’re tied up with customs and

285/539
immigration. That gives us a chance to have
a talk. As a matter of fact, I was rather hop-
ing you might be able to help us.”

“Forget it, Mr Byrne.” Alex shook his head.
“I’d already made up my mind before we
landed. I don’t want anything more to do
with Drevin. So if you don’t mind putting me
on a plane to Washington, I’ll say goodbye.”

“Washington?” Byrne raised an eyebrow.
“It’s funny you should mention that. But I’m
afraid you can’t just walk out of here, Alex.
Apart from anything else, you’re an illegal
immigrant, remember?” He quickly raised a
hand in a conciliatory gesture. “Just hear me
out. What I’ve got to say may be of genuine
interest to you. And when I’ve finished, then
you can tell me what you think. The truth is,
right now you’re in a unique situation. You
could be very useful to us. And you have no
idea how much is at stake.”

286/539
Alex sighed. “Where have I heard that be-
fore?” He opened the bottle of water and sat
down opposite the CIA man.
“OK. Go
ahead.”

“Well, as you’ve probably guessed, this is all
about Drevin,” Byrne began. “Nikolei Vladi-
mir Drevin. By our count, he’s the fourth or
fifth richest man alive and, of course, the
British just love him. He’s bought a soccer
team; he’s a big businessman; he gives
money to charity. And then there’s Ark An-
gel. Thanks to him, you British are going to
corner the market in space tourism, and
that’s a prize worth having. But I’m afraid it’s
not as easy as that. You see, for the last eight-
een months the CIA and the State Depart-
ment have been investigating Drevin, and
we’ve discovered that he isn’t quite what he
seems. I’m talking about organized crime,
Alex. And all roads lead straight to him. To
put it in a nutshell, we think he’s just about
the biggest criminal in the world.”

287/539
Byrne paused. Alex showed no reaction.
After all he’d been through, he no longer had
it in him to be surprised.

“It’s complicated,” Byrne went on. “And even
though you flew over here on Drevin’s sky
palace, I guess you’re probably jet-lagged. So
I’ll give it to you in broad strokes.

“To understand Drevin, you have to go back
to the break-up of the Soviet Union in the
early nineties.

Communism was finished and the whole
country was looking forward to a fresh start.
But there was a problem. The new Russian
government was broke. It needed money
badly and it decided to sell off all its assets,
which is to say,
its car manufacturing
centres, its hydroelectrical plants, its airline
and—most crucial of all—its oilfields. They
sold them cheap, often for a fraction of their
real value. They had no choice, because they
needed the money fast and they needed it up

288/539
front. In the next few years a new group of
businessmen appeared. They were in the
right place at the right time and they saw
that this was a fantastic opportunity. These
people weren’t going to become millionaires
overnight. As share prices rose, they were go-
ing to become billionaires—and that’s exactly
what happened.

“Nikolei Drevin was one of these people, but
he was very different to the rest. We don’t
know a lot about his past. It’s hard to find
out anything that’s happened in Russia in
the last twenty years. We believe that Drevin
started off in the army. He was certainly a
senior figure in the KGB. Then we lose track
of him until he re-emerges with a successful
business selling—of all
things—gardening
equipment. He also dabbled in shares, par-
ticularly oil. He was doing well, but not that
well, and when the sale of the century started
he didn’t have enough money to cut himself
a slice.

289/539
“And this was when he had his big idea. His
work with the army and the KGB had
brought him into contact with the Russian
underworld—I’m talking about the mafiya.
He knew all the big names and so he went to
them for a loan. You see, he was a respect-
able businessman. He’d seen the future, and
with their support he could buy into it big
time. He needed about eighty million dollars,
enough to buy a controlling interest
in
Novgerol, one of the big Russian oil compan-
ies. The mafiya met with him and decided
they liked him, but they didn’t have enough
money, so they turned to their friends in
Japan. You’ve heard of the yakuza? Well,
they were interested too, and just to round
things off, the Chinese triads also decided to
join the party. Between the three of them
they raised the finance and Drevin was in.
Suddenly he was a major player.

“So he bought into Novgerol. He got it for a
song and the people who suffered in the end

290/539
were the Russian people. It was their oil and
it was more or less stolen from them. I doubt
that Drevin lost any sleep over that. His
shares doubled and trebled and multiplied
by about a hundred, and he was able to pay
back all his criminal friends with interest,
and that was the end of that. Of course, there
were people who got in his way. There were
protesters. The police launched an inquiry.
And do you know what? They were all
murdered. You only had to sneeze at Drevin
and someone would call round at your house
with a machine gun. Kill you. Kill your fam-
ily. Kill everyone who knew you. It was easier
to keep quiet and, believe me, after a while,
people did just that.

“So Drevin is in with the mafiya. He’s in with
the yakuza. And he’s in with the triads. And
of course, once these people know him,
they’re not going to leave him alone. Not that
Drevin cares. He’s got as much money as
anyone could possibly want; but the funny

291/539
thing is, people like that—they always want
more. So he keeps working with them. He
becomes, if you like, the banker for half the
criminal organizations in the world. The yak-
uza are selling Russian energetics weapons
to terrorist groups; the triads are running
drugs out of Burma and Afghanistan; the
mafiya are moving into drugs and prostitu-
tion throughout the West: Drevin provides
the cash flow. I would say that around the
world there are hundreds of dirty deals done
every day and Drevin’s money is behind just
about all of them.”

“If you know so much about him, why don’t
you arrest him?” Alex asked. His head was
spinning. He had just spent almost a week
living with this man and he was trying to
marry what Byrne was saying with what he
had himself observed. He had guessed that
Drevin was no saint; but he had never sus-
pected anything like this.

292/539
“We’re going to arrest him,” Byrne replied. “I
told you. We’ve been investigating him for
over a year. But when you’re dealing with the
really big criminals, Alex, it’s not as easy as
you might think. I mean, look at Al Capone.
He was one of America’s worst gangsters.
Nobody knows how many people he had
killed. But despite all the work of the FBI, in
the end all they could get him for was fid-
dling his income tax. It’s the same with
Drevin.

“He’s clever; he’s covered his back. A deal
here, a deal there—he leaves no trace. We get
whispers and hints that he’s involved, but it’s
like trying to build a castle out of individual
grains of sand. Witnesses are too scared to
talk. Anyone who comes forward gets killed.
Even so, slowly but surely, we’ve been build-
ing a case against him. The State Department
has collected over two thousand documents.
There are transcripts, tape and video record-
ings, photographs. There’s been a team of

293/539
thirty people working round the clock for
months; there still is. And they’ve all had to
be protected. From the start, we’ve been
afraid that Drevin might try to get to them.
He might even send people in to destroy the
evidence. Mercenaries. Suicide bombers. I
wouldn’t put anything past him. So we’ve
stored it all somewhere really safe.”

“Where?”

“That’s why I was interested just now when
you mentioned Washington. The
case
against Drevin is lodged in probably the
safest place in the United States. Inside the
Pentagon.”

Byrne got up and helped himself to a bottle
of water. All the talking had made him look
more exhausted than ever.

“We plan to arrest Drevin one week from
today. I hardly need tell you that this inform-
ation is highly classified. The real problem is
Ark Angel. The British
government’s

294/539
invested billions in the space station, and
when we arrest Drevin, the whole project
could collapse. That’s why we’ve had to wait.
We’ve had to be absolutely sure that we’ve
tied up all the loose ends before we make our
move.

“Of course, MI6 know what we’re doing.
There’s no way we could stop them finding
out. We’ve shown them the evidence but they
don’t want to believe it. They can’t afford to
believe it. When Drevin goes down, there’s
going to be a scandal that’ll rip the whole fin-
ancial market apart. But that’s too bad. The
man is a crook; he belongs in jail.”

“So why do you need me?” Alex asked.

Byrne sat down again. “Because something’s
happened,” he admitted. “Something we
don’t understand—

and you seem to be in the middle of it.”

“Force Three.”

295/539
“Exactly. Here’s a group of people who call
themselves eco-warriors and who seem to
have picked a fight with Drevin, supposedly
because he wiped out a few bird species on
Flamingo Bay. But we don’t know where they
came from. We don’t know who they are. We
even wonder if Drevin himself isn’t using
them as some sort of diversion to distract us
from our investigation. Your Mrs Jones is
trying to get
it right
now—but we’re running out of time. I’m wor-
ried Drevin is going to pull some kind of
stunt in the next seven days and slip through
our fingers. Maybe he’s going to disappear.
He could head off to South America, or there
are parts of Australia where we’d never find
him. A man with his connections wouldn’t
find it difficult to build himself a new iden-
tity. We need to know if he’s planning to
leave and, if so, where he might be going.
That’s where you come in.

to the bottom of

296/539
I’ve already got one agent inside his organiz-
ation, but that’s not enough. Drevin’s too
careful. He’s not giving anything away. But
you’re different. You’re right in the middle of
the family. You’re buddies with Paul Drevin.
And the best thing is, they don’t know any-
thing about you. You’re above suspicion.
They certainly don’t know about your con-
nection with us.

“Tomorrow they’re going to take you with
them to Flamingo Bay. It’s like Skeleton Key
all over again. We can’t get anyone in there.
He’s got the rocket base on the south of the
island and the whole place is protected by his
own private security force. It’s not even
American soil. The island is ten miles off the
coast of Barbados and it just happens to be-
long to the British. Drevin leased it from
your government when he built his space
centre there. So we can’t go storming in.

297/539
“All I’m asking is for you to hang in there for
one more week and report back if you see
anything going on.

It’ll just be a vacation as far as you’re con-
cerned. You’re Drevin’s guest—”

“I was Drevin’s guest,” Alex cut in. “I told
you. I’m leaving.”

“Why?”

Alex shrugged. “What you’ve told me about
him—I didn’t much like him anyway. And
now I don’t want to go anywhere near him.”

“You won’t be in any danger.”

“That’s what you said last time, Mr Byrne.
And I nearly got killed. Two of your agents
did get killed.”

“And if you hadn’t helped us, thousands
more people would have died too.” Byrne
looked genuinely puzzled. “What’s the mat-
ter, Alex? Are you scared? Is it because of
what happened with the sniper?”

298/539
Alex felt a twinge of pain in his chest. It
happened every time anyone reminded him
of his bullet wound.

Perhaps it always would. “I’m not scared,” he
said. “I just don’t like being used.”

“We only use you because you’re so damn
good,” Byrne replied. “And this time I’m not
lying to you. You’re not working for MI6 and
you’re not working for us. I just want you to
continue with your vacation and if you see
Drevin packing his suitcases or if a submar-
ine turns up in the middle of the night, give
us a call.

I’ve already told you, I’ve got an agent on the
island and there’ll be a back-up team just ten
miles away on Barbados. You’ll be watched
all the time. Nothing’s going to happen to
you. I’m only afraid that somehow Drevin is
going to get off the hook. Seven more days,
Alex. Then we can make the arrest and you
can go home.”

299/539
“What about Paul?” It was only now that
Alex
about Paul Drevin. He
wondered if he knew the truth about his
father.

thought

“Nothing will happen to him. He’ll be well
looked after. I guess he’ll go back to his
mother.”

Alex didn’t speak. He wanted to refuse but
something was stopping him. He didn’t want
Byrne to think he was afraid. Maybe it was as
simple as that.

“One week,” Byrne promised. “Drevin won’t
suspect a thing. And just in case you do run
into trouble, we’ve got someone here who
might be able to help you.”

“Who?”

“He’s waiting for you outside.”

He stood up and Alex followed him out of the
office and down a corridor to an open-plan
area. There was a man sitting at a table and

300/539
Alex recognized him instantly. It would have
been hard not to. The man was enormously
fat. He was bald with a black moustache and
a round, smiling face. He was wearing a
brightly
that
couldn’t have looked more inappropriate
among the dark suits of the CIA operatives.
Alex had never seen so many flowers on one
piece of material.

coloured Hawaiian shirt

“Hello, Alex!” the man boomed.

“Hello, Mr Smithers,” Alex replied.

“What a great pleasure to see you again.
You’re looking tremendously well, if I may
say so. Mrs Jones sends her best wishes.”

“She knows I’m here?”

“Oh yes. We’ve been keeping an eye on you.
As a matter of fact, it was she who sent me
here.” Smithers lowered his voice, although
it could still be heard across the room. “We
thought you might like one or two new

301/539
gadgets, and although the Americans do pro-
duce a few of their own, I rather think we
lead the field.

Not that they’d agree, of course!”

“Gadgets…” Alex watched as Smithers
reached down and lifted a briefcase onto the
table.

“Absolutely. It wouldn’t be any fun without
gadgets, would it? And I’ve come up with
some quite interesting ideas. This, for ex-
ample.” He produced an object that Alex re-
cognized immediately. It was an inhaler,
identical to the one Paul Drevin used. “Now,
we happen to know that Drevin’s son has one
of these,” Smithers explained. “So if anyone
notices this in your luggage, they’ll simply
assume it’s his. But it’s fingerprint sensitive
and I’ve programmed it for your personal
use. When you press the cylinder, it’ll send
out a puff of knockout gas. Effective up to
about five metres. Alternatively you can twist

302/539
the cylinder round twice clockwise;
that
turns it into a hand grenade. Five-second
fuse. I tested it on one of my assistants. Poor
old Bennett … he should be out of hospital in
a couple of months.”

He passed it across and dived back into the
case.

“Eavesdropping,” he went on. “Part of your
brief is to listen to anything interesting that
Mr Drevin may be saying, and for that you’ll
need this.” He brought out a slim white box
with a set of headphones. Alex picked it up.
It was an iPod. At least, it looked like one.
“This uses microwave technology,” Smithers
explained. “Point the screen at anyone up to
fifty metres away and listen through the
headphones. You’ll hear every word they say.
You can also use it to contact the CIA. Rotate
the click wheel three times anticlockwise and
speak into it. I’ve got another version, by the
way, packed with enough plastic explosive to
blow up a building, but Mr Blunt said you

303/539
weren’t to have it. Shame, really. I call it the
i-x-Plod.

“And one last thing. Flamingo Bay is a trop-
ical island with lots of creepy-crawlies. So
this might help…”

Once again he reached into the case and this
time came out with a glass bottle marked:
STINGO

Jungle-strength mosquito lotion

“Mosquito repellent,” Alex said.

“Absolutely not,” Smithers replied. “This is a
very powerful formulation and it actually
does the exact opposite. It attracts mosqui-
toes. In fact, once you open the bottle, it’ll at-
tract just about every insect on the island.
You might find it useful if you need a diver-
sion.” He closed the case and stood up. “I’m
off to St Lucia,” he announced. “A little holi-
day—and it’ll give me a chance to test my
shark-repellent swimming trunks. So I won’t

304/539
be too far away if you need me, although I’m
sure you won’t. Chin-chin!”

Smithers wandered off down another cor-
ridor. Alex was left with Joe Byrne.

“So will you do it?” Byrne asked.

Alex stared at the three gadgets on the table.
“It looks like everyone’s already made up my
mind for me.”

“That’s great, Alex. Thank you.” Byrne ges-
tured and the blond-haired man who had
brought Alex from the airport came over.
“You’ve already met Special Agent Shulsky,”
he said.

“Call me Ed,” the agent said. Without the
dark glasses and the intimidating manner, he
seemed a lot more pleasant. Alex guessed he
was still in his twenties; he looked as if he
hadn’t long graduated from college.

“Agent Shulsky will be heading the back-up
operation,” Byrne explained. “He and a

305/539
dozen people will be based on Barbados.
That’s where you’ll be landing, by the way.
Flamingo Bay doesn’t have its own airstrip.

The moment you call, they’ll come running.”

Shulsky smiled. “It’s a real pleasure to be
working with you, Alex,” he said. “They
showed us your file. I have to say, it’s more
than impressive.”

“Is there anything else you want to know?”
Byrne asked.

“Yes. There is one thing,” Alex said. “This all
came about because I just happened to be in
the room next to Paul Drevin at St Dominic’s
Hospital. But it was no coincidence, was it?
Mr Blunt put me there because he hoped I’d
meet Paul and become friends with him.”

Byrne hesitated. “I can’t answer that for sure,
Alex,” he said. “But I will say this much: Alan
Blunt does have a knack of making events
work his way.”

306/539
So it was true. Alex could have been taken to
any hospital in London. But even as he lay
there bleeding with a bullet in his chest, the
MI6 chief had been planning ahead, engin-
eering his next assignment. It was almost
beyond belief. No. Where Blunt was con-
cerned, it was to be expected.

“Shulsky will take you back to the airport,”
Byrne added. “We’ll sort you out a temporary
passport and Drevin will pick you up tomor-
row. Good luck on Flamingo Bay.”

“Just don’t expect any postcards,” Alex said.

He and Ed Shulsky left
together. Byrne
shook his head and walked slowly back the
other way.

FLAMINGO BAY

The six-seater Cessna 195 seaplane circled
the island almost lazily before it came in to
land. Alex, along with Paul and his father,
had been flown from New York to Grantley
Adams International Airport on the south-
east corner of Barbados. From there they had
been taken by car a few miles up the coast to
Ragged Point, where the seaplane had been
waiting for the final ten-mile flight to Drev-
in’s private island.

Alex could see it now, his face pressed
against the window with the single propeller
buzzing noisily and the starboard wing
stretching out above his head. From the air,
Flamingo Bay looked as ridiculously beauti-
ful as every Caribbean island, the colours al-
most too intense to be true. There was the
dazzling blue of the ocean, the immaculate
white beaches, the rich, elemental green of

308/539
the pine trees and rainforest. The weather
couldn’t have been more perfect for the com-
ing launch. As the plane arced for a second
time, tilting towards the stretch of water that
would be its landing strip, brilliant sunshine
blazed in through the window.

“There it is!” Paul Drevin leant past Alex and
pointed. “You can see the launch site!” he
exclaimed.

The island was about two miles long and
shaped like a leaping fish. The rocket
gantries stood where the eye should have
been. There were two of them, right next to
the sea, with about a dozen brick buildings,
many of
them surmounted with satellite
dishes, about a quarter of a mile away. The
ground in this area was quite bare, all the ve-
getation burned away, presumably by rocket
exhaust. Alex remembered what Kaspar had
told him when he had been a prisoner of
Force Three. Four bird species had been

309/539
made extinct on the island. He was surprised
it hadn’t been more.

If the head of the fish was naked, the rest of
it was covered with dense rainforest separ-
ated by a narrow track which ran the full
length of the island. The track led to a tall
fence running north to south, with a check-
point and a series of wooden cabins near by.
This was the only way into the launch site.
There were watchtowers all over the island,
making sure that nobody could approach un-
seen by sea.

Drevin’s house had been built on what Alex
thought of as the fish’s tail. It was a simple
white structure, and even from this distance
he could see that it was ultra-modern with
giant glass windows giving uninterrupted
views of the sea. The arched belly of the fish
was one long beach with palm trees leaning
towards the water. As the plane dipped
down, Alex saw a brightly painted wooden
jetty, three motor launches and a couple of

310/539
sailing boats anchored in the shallows. He
couldn’t hear music from steel drums or
smell the rum—but it was easy to imagine
them.

“Fasten your seat belts,” Drevin said. “We
are about to land.”

Drevin was sitting on the other side of the
aisle, wearing a pale yellow open-necked
shirt. He hadn’t spoken much on the journey
from New York, not even when he had
fetched Alex from the departure lounge at
JFK. Alex got the impression that Drevin
blamed him personally for the mix-up over
the passport. Or perhaps he was annoyed
with the American authorities for inconveni-
encing one of his guests.

Now he was deep in thought, tugging at his
ring. In the bright sunlight his face looked
more pale than ever.

Alex was grateful for the silence. He wasn’t
sure how to behave with Drevin any more.

311/539
Everything Joe Byrne had told him was tum-
bling around in his head. In the space of just
a few days, Drevin had gone from being a re-
clusive billionaire who didn’t like losing, to
the biggest criminal in the world. He was in-
volved with the mafiya and the triads,
who—only a few months ago—had tried to
kill Alex. People who got in his way died. He
was another monster and here he was, sitting
just a few seats away.

The Cessna
swept down and landed
smoothly, water spraying up towards the
windows. It taxied towards the jetty and
came to a halt. Paul Drevin was the first to
stand up, followed by Tamara Knight, who
had been sitting directly behind Alex. They
made their way out into the soft heat of the
Caribbean afternoon.

There was an electric buggy waiting for
them, the sort that was normally used on golf
courses. Drevin had already explained that
there was very little petrol on the island;

312/539
electric vehicles were easier. Now that he
was back on land, he seemed more cheerful.

“We’ll go to the house first and change,” he
announced. “Alex, I’m sure you’d like to see
around the island.

We can do that before dinner. Tomorrow I’ll
be busy with preparations for the launch, so
the two of you will have to amuse yourselves.
But there’s plenty to do. Swimming, scuba-
diving, sailing… Welcome, you might say, to
paradise.”

Drevin drove them the short distance to
Little Point, the corner of the island where
the house stood. The building was as im-
pressive in its own way as every property
that Drevin owned. It was almost futuristic,
white with huge windows that retracted into
the walls, so that at the press of a button it
could be either open to the elements or en-
closed. It had been raised about half a metre
above the ground, presumably to allow the

313/539
air to circulate. Thick, wooden legs suppor-
ted it on a rocky shelf facing west. Alex
guessed that the sunsets would be spectacu-
lar. There were only three bedrooms. Tamara
would be staying on the other side of the is-
land. Alex was next door to Paul. His room
had two single beds, an en suite bathroom
and plenty of space.

Ten minutes later, dressed in a T-shirt, knee-
length shorts and sandals, Alex was back in
the buggy next to Paul. It was early in the af-
ternoon and the sun was still strong. Drevin
drove them along the single track.

Although the island couldn’t have been more
than half a mile wide, the sea had disap-
peared from view, lost behind a seemingly
impenetrable screen of vegetation. Here the
atmosphere was damp and heavy, and Alex
could hear thousands of insects already act-
ive among the leaves.

314/539
They passed the cabins that Alex had seen
from the air, and immediately afterwards
came to an electric gate with a checkpoint
and three guards on patrol. They were the
first guards Alex had seen. They were
dressed in pale grey overalls with a logo—a
pair of wings and a streak of light—printed
on the left side of their chest. They wore
combat boots and carried black Mini Uzi
19mm sub-machine guns. Seeing the vicious
weapons, Alex felt a twinge of unease. Joe
Byrne had made this visit to Flamingo Bay
sound very safe and straightforward. He was
there to make sure Drevin didn’t run away.
Nothing more than that. But if something
did go wrong, if Drevin found out that Alex
had been in contact with the CIA, he would
be trapped. He had no doubt that the motor
boats would be neutralized at night. The
plane had already left.

Barbados and the CIA back-up team were
ten miles away. Once again Alex found

315/539
himself surrounded by an enemy army and,
as usual, he was on his own.

The buggy stopped and a man appeared,
dressed in the same grey uniform as the
guards. He was an ugly man, aged in his
thirties, with round cheeks, thick lips and
curling, ginger-coloured hair. There was
something about his face that didn’t look
quite real. His skin was deathly pale, as if he
never stepped out into the sun. Alex could
see the man’s paunch pressing against his
overalls. He wasn’t just unfit. He looked ill.

“Good afternoon, Mr Drevin,” he said. His
voice suited his appearance. The words came
out in a strained, unpleasant whisper as if he
had something caught in his throat.

“Good afternoon.” Drevin turned to the two
boys. “This is one of the most important
people on the island,”

he explained. “His name is Magnus Payne
and he’s the head of security.” He looked at

316/539
Payne. “You haven’t met my son, Paul; and
his friend, Alex Rider.”

The security man nodded at Alex. “Nice to
meet you, Alex,” he said, and at that moment
Alex was conscious of two things. Although
he knew it was impossible, he wondered if
he’d met Payne before. And there was
something else. Something that felt wrong.
But what?

“I should warn you that Payne has complete
control over this side of the island,” Drevin
was explaining.

“You must do what he tells you. And please
don’t
try to get past here without his
authorization.”

“What’s the point of a security barrier?” Alex
asked. “This is an island. If someone wanted
to break in, they could just swim round.”

317/539
“Razor wire,” Magnus Payne rasped. “Under
the water. They could try, but it would be
rather painful.”

He raised a hand and the gate slid open, ac-
tivated from inside the checkpoint. Payne
climbed into the buggy next to Drevin and
the four of them continued to the launch
area.

Alex had seen many amazing things in his
life, but the sight before him was something
he knew he would never forget.

The rocket was right in front of him, on the
edge of a flat, empty area, pointing towards
the sky and supported by two steel arms
reaching out from a huge gantry. It was at
least
fifty metres tall, slender and more
beautiful than anything Alex could have ima-
gined. He had seen rockets in museums; he
had watched launches on TV. But this was
different. It was surrounded by a vast, blue
sky which seemed suddenly endless. And yet,

318/539
sitting there, it seemed to radiate the power
that was contained in the four solid rocket
boosters that would, very soon, blast it into
space. About twenty people were working
around it. The rocket dwarfed them, making
them look tiny.

“We call it Gabriel 7,” Drevin said, and he
couldn’t keep the excitement out of his voice.
“It’s an Atlas 2AS

rocket. You can just make out the payload.”
He pointed to a bulging shape close to the
rocket’s tip. “It’s covered with an aerody-
namic fairing,” he went on. “It has to survive
the ascent through the atmosphere.

But underneath, there’s a glass and steel ob-
servation module weighing 1.8 tonnes. It will
take the Atlas just fifteen minutes to carry it
into space, and the day after tomorrow it’ll
be up there, three hundred miles above our
heads. The heart of Ark Angel!”

Paul shook his head. “It’s really cool!”

319/539
“Cool?” Drevin snapped. “I despise this mod-
ern teenage slang! You use ghetto language
to describe what you can’t even begin to ima-
gine. Coot? Is that all you can say?”

“What about the other rocket?” Alex asked.

He had seen the second gantry from the
plane. It was further along the shore, a clear
distance from the Atlas. The second rocket,
slightly smaller, also seemed to be waiting
for blast-off. More people surrounded it,
working on the final preparations.

“Mr Payne?” Drevin turned to his head of
security.

“We’ve brought forward the launch,” Payne
explained in his rasping voice. “We plan to
send it up immediately after Gabriel 7.”

“Why?” Alex wondered.

“We are involved in a series of long-term ex-
periments,” Drevin said. “We need to know
more about the effects of weightlessness on

320/539
the human body. The second rocket is a
Soyuz-Fregat. It will carry a model of the hu-
man system into space.”

“What does that mean?” Alex asked.

“An ape.”

“I didn’t realize you were still allowed to use
animals.”

Drevin shrugged. “It’s not ideal. But there’s
no other way.”

They drove to the first of the brick buildings.
It was the largest in the compound, with
three satellite dishes pointing up at the sky.
“This is the control centre,” Payne told them.
“The other buildings are for storage and con-
struction. We also have sleeping quarters
and recreation facilities. There are more than
sixty people working on the island.”

They went in, along a corridor and into a
large room with slanting windows looking
out onto the launch site. Above the windows

321/539
was a giant screen, blank at the moment but
ready to transmit pictures of the launch it-
self. There were about twenty computers, ar-
ranged in two groups, facing each other. One
group was marked COMMAND, the other
TELEMETRY. To one side Alex noticed a
conference table, a dozen chairs and another
screen. A huge board with hundreds of light
bulbs spelt out various information including
LTST—local true solar time—the space equi-
valent of GMT. There was less to the control
centre than Alex had imagined. In many
ways it was like an oversized classroom.

A man had stood up as they came in. He was
short but thickset, and looked either Chinese
or Korean with neat black hair, wire-framed
spectacles and a pencil moustache. He was
dressed like a businessman in a smart jacket
and tie. The clothes couldn’t have been less
appropriate on a Caribbean island, but of
course the climate in the control room was

322/539
conditioned. Alex could feel the sterile air
blowing cold on his bare arms and legs.

Drevin introduced him. “This is Professor
Sing Joo-Chan, the flight director here on
Flamingo Bay. We were very lucky to be able
to recruit him from the Khrunichev Space
Centre.”

“How do you do.” Sing spoke with a cultured
English accent. He shook hands with Alex
and Paul, but the dark brown eyes behind
the glasses showed no interest in them at all.
They were children. They had no place here.
That was what the eyes seemed to say.

“This is where it all happens,” Drevin went
on. “We’ll be controlling both the launch and
the docking procedure from here. Of course,
most of the procedure is computerized. But
we have a camera fitted into Gabriel 7’s nose.
Travelling three hundred miles at the speed
of light, it takes about 0.001 seconds for the
images to be relayed back here. It’s a bit like

323/539
a giant computer game, except when you
press a button here you’re manoeuvring
about four tonnes of equipment in outer
space. You can’t afford mistakes.”

Sing shook his head. “There will be no mis-
takes,” he assured them.

“Have we had the latest weather reports?”
Drevin asked.

“Yes, Mr Drevin. I’ve gone over the meteoro-
logical charts myself and the conditions are
exactly as predicted.”

“Good.” Drevin was pleased. “Nine o’clock on
Wednesday morning. It’s a sight you boys
won’t forget.”

“Can’t we get any closer?” Paul asked.

Professor Sing looked away, as if the ques-
tion was
too stupid to answer. Alex
wondered what it was about the man that he
didn’t like. Perhaps it was his complete lack
of enthusiasm. There was no emotion in his

324/539
face—and none in his voice. How could he be
in charge of such a huge project and not feel
the excitement of it?

“If you were any closer you’d be deafened.”
Drevin said. “When Gabriel 7 is launched,
the vibration levels will be huge. They’d des-
troy your eardrums if you were too close.
Even in here we’ll need to be completely
insulated.”

“I’m afraid I must ask for some time with
you, Mr Drevin,” Sing interrupted. “I need to
discuss the launch trajectory dispersions.”

Drevin turned to Alex and Paul. “Magnus
will show you around the rest of the base if
there’s anything else you wish to see. We’ll
meet again at dinner.”

“Sure.” Alex tried to smile, but he didn’t look
up. He could no longer trust himself to meet
Drevin’s gaze.

325/539
And there was something else that was wor-
rying him. The more he saw of
the is-
land—the rockets, the launch pad, the space
centre—the more he felt a nameless sense of
dread. It was hard to explain, but Alex was
beginning to think that Joe Byrne and the
CIA had got it all wrong. Drevin wasn’t be-
having like a man about to run away. He had
something else in mind. Alex was sure of it.

There were less than forty-five hours until
the launch. That might be all the time he had
left to find out what it was.

But later that afternoon, Alex was able to for-
get some of his worries. Paul took him down
to the beach and, as promised, gave Alex his
first lesson in kite-surfing.

The sport, very simply, combined surfing
and kite-flying. As Paul said, you stood on a
board and flew a kite, and the wind did the
rest. Of course, there was more to it than
that. The kite was actually a giant polyester

326/539
wing—nine metres across—which had to be
inflated with a pump. It was connected to
Alex by four lines which clipped onto a rub-
ber harness around his waist. Then there was
the board, similar to a surfboard but with
four fins and twin tips, making it bidirection-
al. And finally there was the control bar,
which he held in front of him. The mechanics
were simple enough. The control bar was his
steering wheel, which he could raise and
lower, turn left and right. The rest was bal-
ance and nerve.

Alex was lucky. There wasn’t much wind and
the sea was fairly calm. But even so, he soon
felt the power of the new sport. He started on
the edge of the water with Paul about twenty
metres behind him, holding the kite. Paul re-
leased it and Alex quickly brought it up until
it reached the zenith, directly over his head.

While it was there, the kite was essentially in
neutral. Carrying the board, Alex waded into
the sea until the water was up to his ankles.

327/539
He put one foot on the board. Then he
lowered the kite into the wind.

And he was away. It was an incredible sensa-
tion. He could feel his arms straining at their
sockets, his whole body tensing against the
pull of the kite. Before he knew it, he was
moving very fast, skimming over the surface
with the spray flying into his eyes. The board
was incredibly flexible. All Alex had to do
was pull on the control bar and he could
change direction instantly. With the late af-
ternoon sun beating down on him and the
palm trees rushing past, all his worries about
Drevin, the CIA, Ark Angel and Force Three
were forgotten. For the next two hours he
was happy, finally enjoying the holiday he
had been promised.

After the two boys had exhausted themselves
with the kite, they flopped down onto the
sand and watched as the sun began its des-
cent. It was still very warm. The breeze,
blowing gently across the beach, carried the

328/539
scent of pine and eucalyptus. From this part
of the island it was impossible to see the
launch pad and the two waiting rockets. A
single grey heron perched sedately on the
end of the jetty, its eyes fixed on the water,
searching for fish. The sailing boats and mo-
tor launches bobbed up and down, jostled by
the waves.

Alex was lying on his back, enjoying the
warmth of the setting sun. He glanced side-
ways and noticed Paul staring at his bare
chest. The scar left by his surgery had healed
quickly but it was still very red.

“You must have really hurt yourself,” Paul
said.

“Yes.” Alex was reluctant to talk about his
fake bicycle accident.

“You’ve got lots of other cuts and bruises
too.”

329/539
Alex didn’t even look. Every time MI6 had
sent him out on a mission, his body had
come back with more souvenirs. He sat up
and reached for his T-shirt. “I’m starving,”
he said, changing the subject.
“When’s
dinner?”

“Not for another hour. But we can grab a
snack, if you like.”

“No. I’ll wait.”

Alex pulled on his shirt. The sun was a per-
fect disc, cut in half by the edge of the world.
The sea had turned blood red.

“Do you like it here?” Paul asked.

“It’s fantastic. Really great.” Alex did his best
to inject some enthusiasm into his voice.

“It makes a real change to have someone like
you here.” Paul stared at the horizon as if
searching for the right words. “It must be
awful not to have parents,” he went on. “But
you don’t know what it’s like having a dad

330/539
like mine. He’s got so much money, and
everyone knows who he is. But sometimes I
think I don’t even know him myself.”

“Do you enjoy being with your mother?” Alex
asked. He wanted to steer the conversation
away from Drevin.

Paul nodded. “Yes. I wish he’d let me see
more of her. And it doesn’t help being on my
own all the time. I sometimes wonder what
I’m doing in the middle of all this. It would
be a lot easier if there was someone else
around.”

Alex was feeling increasingly uneasy. Paul
had no idea that his entire life was about to
self-destruct and that he—Alex—had been
sent here to help make it happen. In less
than a week’s time, the CIA would arrest his
father. All Drevin’s assets would presumably
be seized by the American government.
Drevin would go to prison.

331/539
And what would happen to Paul? The story
would be on the front page of every newspa-
per all over the world. He’d have to change
his name. He’d have to begin all over again,
adapting to a completely different life. Some-
how he’d have to get used to the fact that he
was the son of a ruthless criminal. A killer.
But none of this was Alex’s fault. He forced
himself to remember that. And Paul had a
mother who’d be there to look after him
when this whole thing exploded. He’d get
through it.

The sun had almost disappeared. A great
shadow seemed to stretch out across the sea,
and Alex watched as the heron flew off, soar-
ing
palm trees.
Paradise? Perhaps the bird knew otherwise.

effortlessly

over

the

Alex stood up. “Let’s go in,” he said.

They walked along the beach together, the
waves lapping softly near by.

332/539
On the other side of the island, another con-
versation was taking place.

The head of security, Magnus Payne, was
standing in a large office overlooking the
launch site.

Drevin was sitting on a leather sofa, reading
the email that Payne had just handed him.

“Alex Rider is an MI6 agent,” Payne was say-
ing. “He may not be working for them now,
but he has certainly worked for them in the
past—and not once but several times. If they
know he is here, it is quite possible that they
have already approached him and asked him
to spy on you. I have searched his luggage
and found nothing. But that does not mean
he isn’t equipped in some way.”

Drevin lowered the email. “It’s not possible!”
His fingers began to play with his ring. “A
spy? He’s fourteen!”

it

that

333/539
“I agree, of course,
is unusual.”
Payne’s lips twisted in a sneer. “But I can as-
sure you, Mr Drevin, that my contact is com-
pletely reliable. After what happened at the
hospital, then at Hornchurch Towers and a
third time at Stamford Bridge, I felt that the
boy was simply too good to be true. There
was something about him … so I made en-
quiries.” He gestured at the email. “That’s
the result.”

“The bicycle accident?”

“In fact a bullet wound from his last assign-
ment. That’s what my contact tells me.”

Drevin fell silent. Payne could see his mind
at work, turning over the possibilities, mak-
ing evaluations. It was all there in the watery
grey eyes.

“That business with the passport in New
York,” he said. He snapped his fingers an-
grily and swore briefly in Russian. “They
must have wanted to make contact with him.

334/539
He was out of my sight for nearly twenty-
four hours. They could have been briefing
him, telling him what to do.”

“They?”

“The Central Intelligence Agency.” Drevin
spoke the words with loathing. “They’re hand
in hand with MI6. The boy could be working
with either of them. Or both.”

“The question is, what do you want to do
with him?”

“What do you suggest?”

“He’s dangerous. He shouldn’t be here. Not
now.”

“We could send him away.”

“Or we could kill him.”

Drevin thought for a little longer. He barely
seemed to breathe. Magnus Payne waited
patiently.

335/539
“You’re right,” Drevin said suddenly. “Paul
won’t be too happy about it, but that can’t be
helped. See to it tomorrow, Mr Payne.”

He got to his feet.

“Kill him.”

DEEP TROUBLE

It was another perfect day. Alex Rider was
eating breakfast with Drevin and his son on a
terrace perched on the edge of the sea, the
waves lapping below them. A servant—all the
staff had been brought
in from Barba-
dos—had served them cold meat,
fruit,
cheese and freshly baked rolls. There was a
jug of Blue Mountain coffee from Jamaica,
one of the most delicious and expensive
blends in the world. This was the millionaire
lifestyle, all right. A stunning house, a
private island, Caribbean sunshine … a snap-
shot of another world.

Drevin was in an unusually good mood. It
was the day before the launch and Alex could
sense his excitement. “What have you boys
got planned for today?”

337/539
“Do you want to take the kite out again?”
Paul asked Alex. “There might be a bit more
wind.”

Alex nodded. “Sure.”

“Why don’t you do some waterskiing?” Drev-
in suggested.

“We could do that too.” Paul was obviously
pleased that his father was taking an interest.
It seemed to Alex that if Drevin had sugges-
ted a sandcastle competition, the other boy
would have agreed.

Drevin turned to Alex. “Have you ever
dived?”

“Yes.” Alex had been a qualified diver since
he was twelve.

“Then why don’t you go out this afternoon?
We have all the equipment you need—and
you can visit the Mary Belle.” Alex looked
puzzled. Drevin went on. “It’s an old trans-
port ship; it was sunk in the Second World

338/539
War while carrying supplies to the American
bases in the Caribbean. Now it’s an excellent
dive site.

You can swim into some of the holds.”

Alex had been on wreck dives before. He
knew that there was nothing more strangely
beautiful, more eerie, than the ghost of an
old ship. He turned to Paul. “Do you want to
come?”

“I can’t,” Paul said. “My asthma…”

“Scuba is one of the many things Paul is un-
able to do,” Drevin said. “But I can ask one of
the guards to be your buddy. It would be a
shame not to see it.”

“Don’t let me stop you, Alex,” Paul added.
“Everyone says the Mary Belle is amazing,
and I’ve got some homework I’m supposed to
do. So you go ahead.”

At that moment, Tamara Knight appeared on
the terrace, dressed in a linen jacket and

339/539
trousers with a pair of sunglasses dangling
around her neck. She was carrying a bulging
file.

“You’ve got some important correspondence
to deal with, Mr Drevin,” she said.

“Thank you, Miss Knight. I’ll be with you in a
few minutes.” Drevin nodded at Alex. “Enjoy
the dive,” he said, and went into the house.

“You’re diving?” Tamara asked. She sounded
surprised.

“Yes.” Alex wasn’t sure what to say.

“Where?”

“The Mary Belle.”

“Oh yes.” Tamara still wasn’t smiling. “You’d
better be careful. I understand it’s very deep.
And I hope you don’t see any sharks.”

After breakfast, Alex went back up to his
room to fetch his trunks. The shutters had
been drawn back and the windows were wide

340/539
open. He had a spectacular view of the whole
of Little Point. Looking out, Alex saw Drevin
standing by his buggy, talking into some sort
of phone. Alex thought for a moment, then
went over to his case and drew out the iPod
Smithers had given him. He put on the head-
phones, turned it on, then pointed the screen
in Drevin’s direction. Almost at once, he
heard Drevin’s voice. It was so clear, he
could have been standing right next to him.

“…for the final preparations. I am going over
everything again today. I want all the pro-
gramming to be double-checked.” A pause.
“The boat is coming in tonight at eleven. Not
at Little Point. The western tip of the island,
behind the launch site. I’ll be waiting for it
there…”

There was a movement at the door. It was
Paul. “What are you doing, Alex?” he asked.
Alex took off the headphones. “Nothing.”
Paul saw the iPod. “Are you taking that down
to the beach?”

341/539
“No. I’m just checking it’s working.” The two
of them left together. For the rest of the
morning they swam and snorkelled and went
out with the kite. This time there was a little
more wind and Paul
taught Alex a few
tricks—jumps and the handle pass. But Alex
found it hard to concentrate. All he could
think about was the conversation he’d over-
heard. A boat was arriving that night at elev-
en. Why? Drevin obviously didn’t want it to
be seen. That was why he wasn’t using the
jetty near the house. Could it be that he was
planning to leave, and, if so, should Alex
alert the CIA now? No. It was too soon. Bet-
ter to get over to the other side of the island
once darkness had fallen and see for himself.
That was the reason he was here. It would
mean slipping past the checkpoint, but of
course, he couldn’t swim round.

Alex remembered what the head of security
had told him. There was razor wire con-
cealed in the water.

342/539

There had to be another way.

Lunch was at one o’clock: delicious shrimp
roti served with salad and rice. Then they
rested for an hour, avoiding the worst heat of
the sun. At half past three there was a knock
on Alex’s door and a young black man ap-
peared, wearing the grey overalls of the se-
curity staff.

“Mr Rider?” he asked.

Alex got to his feet. “I’m Alex.”

“My name is Kolo. Mr Drevin said you
needed a diving buddy.”

“That’s right.”

“You a certified diver?”

“Yes.”

“Then let’s go!”

Paul wasn’t around. Alex followed Kolo out-
side and down to an equipment store under-
neath the house. It was a large room, a cross

343/539
between a garage and a boathouse. Here
there was spare equipment for the various
boats, a few nets and, in a separate area,
scuba tanks, BCDs, wetsuits,
fins and
everything else needed to go diving.

“The water’s warm out there,” Kolo said as
he hauled out a couple of tanks. “But the
Mary Belle is deep, about twenty-two metres.
So I’m going to give you a half-body wetsuit
and I’ll check out some weights.”

Half an hour later, Alex was dressed in a
bright blue neoprene wetsuit that came down
to his thighs and halfway down his arms.
Kolo was dressed in black. Carrying his
equipment, Alex staggered out onto the
beach, where a boat with a Bajan skipper was
waiting to take the two of them out to sea.

“Good luck, Alex!”

Alex turned to see Paul Drevin standing on
the terrace above him, waving. He waved
back, then climbed into the boat.

344/539
The journey only took a few minutes. In that
time, Alex went over his equipment, running
through the usual checks. His mask fitted.
The BCD was brand new. He turned on his
air supply and checked his gauge. He had
been given just under 3,000 psi. Alex made a
quick calculation. The deeper he went, the
more air he’d use. But he was a light breath-
er. At twenty-two metres, the depth of the
Mary Belle, he guessed he would have a bot-
tom time of at least half an hour.

He noticed Kolo watching him as he finished
his preparations. Alex had been looking for-
ward to visiting the wreck, but suddenly he
felt uncomfortable. He had been diving many
times with his uncle and once with friends,
and each time it had been a happy, sociable
affair. Now he was in a boat with a captain
who hadn’t said a word and a buddy who had
barely spoken either. Two hired hands taking
the rich kid for a ride. For a moment, he

345/539
understood the loneliness that Paul must
have felt all his life.

The boat slowed down and the anchor was
lowered. The captain raised a flag—red with
a white stripe—

signalling that there were divers in the area.
Kolo helped Alex put on his equipment. Then
it was time for the briefing.

“The Mary Belle is right underneath us,”
Kolo told him. “We’ll enter the water over
this side and then if everything’s all right,
we’ll go straight down. The sea’s a little
choppy today and visibility’s not so good, but
you’ll soon see the wreck. We’ll start at the
stern. You can see the rudder and propeller.
Then we’ll swim up the deck and into the
second hold. There’s plenty of fish down
there.
hatchetfish,
groupers—maybe you’ll be lucky and see a
shark. I’ll signal when it’s time to come back
up. Any questions?”

Glassfish,

346/539

Alex shook his head.

“Then let’s do it.”

Alex drew his mask over his face, checked his
respirator one last time, then sat on the edge
of the boat with his hands crossed over his
chest. Kolo gave him a thumbs up and he
tipped over backwards, splashing down into
the sea. It was a moment which he always
enjoyed,
shoulders pushing
through the warm water, rolling in a cocoon
of silver bubbles with the fractured light high
above. Then his BCD, partly
inflated,
dragged him back to the surface. He was
bobbing in the water, face to face with Kolo.
The captain was watching them over the pul-
pit rail.

feeling his

“All right?” Kolo shouted.

Alex gave him the universal diver’s sign: fin-
ger and thumb forming an O, the other three
fingers pointing up. Everything OK.

347/539
Kolo responded with a clenched fist, thumb
pointing down. Descend.

Alex released the air in his BCD and let his
weight belt drag him down. The water rose
over his chin, past his nose and eyes. Gently
he began a controlled descent, listening to
the sound of his own breathing amplified in
his ears.
It was only now that he re-
membered he had been operated on just
three weeks ago.

What would Dr Hayward think about him
scuba-diving? Well,
it wasn’t
something that had been forbidden.

least

at

A triggerfish—green with brilliant yellow
stripes and a yellow tail—swam past, taking
no notice of him.

The water was a deep tropical blue that be-
came darker and murkier the further he des-
cended. He looked at his depth gauge. Eleven
metres, twelve metres, thirteen… He was
comfortable, in full control. Kolo was a few

348/539
metres above him,
crossed. Great
bubbles, each one containing a pearl of used
air, rose in clusters to the surface.

legs

And suddenly the Mary Belle was there, ap-
pearing in front of him as if projected onto a
screen. It was always the same underwater.
Objects, even ones as big as a sunken cargo
ship, seemed to loom out of nowhere. Alex
squeezed a little air into his BCD to slow his
descent. He checked that he had neutral
buoyancy, then he kicked forward and swam
to examine this silent witness from the Se-
cond World War.

The Mary Belle lay in the sand, slanting to
one side. It was in two halves, separated by a
jagged, broken area that could have been
made by a German torpedo. It was about a
hundred and thirty metres long,
twenty
metres wide, the whole ship covered in algae
and brightly coloured coral that would one
day turn it into an extraordinary artificial
reef. As he swam over the deck, heading for

349/539
the stern, Alex looked down on the dark
green surfaces, the twisting ladders and rails,
the anchor winches and blast roof. He passed
two railway freight cars lying side by side.
Part of a locomotive lay shattered, a few
metres away on the sand. At the far end he
saw what had to be an anti-aircraft gun, now
pointing helplessly at the seabed.

Once, the deck would have been full of life,
with young marines running back and forth,
the tannoy system barking orders, the wind
and the sea spray blowing in their faces. But
the Mary Belle had been hit. It had lain here
for over half a century. There was nothing in
the world more silent. It was the very defini-
tion of death.

Alex noticed Kolo signalling to him and he
swam under the stern. He had disturbed a
shoal of snappers which darted away, zigzag-
ging rapidly out of sight. The propeller was
directly above him. When the ship had
broken in two, the stern had turned on its

350/539
side, otherwise it would have been buried in
the sand. Kolo signalled again. Are you all
right? Alex glanced at his air supply. He had
used 500 psi. He signalled back.

Fine.

Slowly they swam round the side of the
wreck. Alex had his arms crossed over his
chest, his hands clasping opposite arms. This
was how he always dived. It helped retain
body warmth and stopped him being temp-
ted to touch anything. They rose up over the
bridge and followed a ladder—each rung en-
crusted with new life—back to the upper
deck. Kolo pointed at an opening beside one
of the freight cars Alex had noticed. A hatch-
way, with a ladder leading down. It was the
entrance to the second hold.

It seemed that Kolo wanted him to go in
ahead of him. Alex took out his torch, then
kicked down and cautiously swam through
the opening, head and shoulders first. Wreck

351/539
diving is entirely safe provided you know
what you’re doing, and Alex knew that the
only real danger was getting his air pipes
caught or slashing them on a sharp edge. The
solution was to do everything very slowly,
checking for any obstructions. But the hatch
was easily wide enough for him. He followed
the ladder down, turned on the torch and
looked around him.

He was in a large, cavernous space which ran
the full width of the ship and about twenty-
five metres of its length. A ghostly green light
streamed in through a series of small
portholes and Alex flicked off the torch, real-
izing he wouldn’t need it. The light illumin-
ated an array of objects instantly recogniz-
able even after sixty years beneath the sea.
There was a Jeep, parked against a wall, a
stockpile of Winchester rifles, a row of boots,
a pair of motorcycles. It occurred to Alex that
if he had come upon these on land, they
would have been rusting and ugly, nothing

352/539
more than junk. But their long stay underwa-
ter had given them a strange beauty. It was
as if nature was trying to claim them and
magically transform them into something
they had never been.

Sound is also different underwater.

Alex heard the clang of metal hitting metal
but for a moment he was unsure where it had
come from, or indeed what
it was. He
glanced left and right but nothing was mov-
ing. Then he looked back the way he’d come.
There was no sign of Kolo. Why hadn’t the
other man swum into the hold? Then Alex
realized. The hatch that he had come
through had been closed. It had swung
shut—that was the sound he had heard.

He twisted round and swam back up the lad-
der. He wasn’t wearing gloves and he was
afraid of cutting himself, but when he
reached the hatch he put his hand against it
and pushed. It didn’t budge.

353/539
It was so securely fastened it could have been
cemented into place.

What the hell was going on? Alex felt the first
stirrings of unease which could all too easily
become panic.

But he knew the most important rule of
scuba-diving was to remain calm, and he
forced himself to breathe slowly, to take
everything one step at a time. The support
holding back the hatch must have broken.
But it didn’t matter. Kolo knew he was here.
There was a dive ship directly overhead. He’d
just have to find another way out.

Alex backed away from the hatch and swam
the length of the hold. He came to a steel
wall on the other side of the truck, and al-
though it was pitted with holes, some big
enough to get an arm through, there was no
way the rest of his body would be able to fol-
low. But there was a door—and it was ajar.
Once it would have allowed the crew access

354/539
from one hold to another. Now it was the exit
that Alex needed. He swam over to it and
pushed. The door opened about five centi-
metres but no more. It had been chained
shut on the other side. Alex saw something
glint. The chain was brand new. That was
when he really began to worry.

A new chain on an old door. It could only be
there for one reason. Somehow Drevin had
found out who he was. Alex had thought he
was so clever, eavesdropping with his iPod
and snooping round the island. But he had
let them put him on a boat and take him out
to sea. He had done exactly what
they
wanted, swimming down into this death
trap. And now they had locked the door.
They were going to leave him here to drown.

Fury, black and irresistible, surged through
him. His heart was thundering; he couldn’t
breathe. For a brief moment he was tempted
to take the regulator out of his mouth and

355/539
scream. He was helpless. At the mercy of a
single pipe and a diminishing supply of air.

The next ninety seconds were possibly the
most difficult of Alex’s life. He had to fight
for control, twenty-two metres below sea
level, aware that he was quite probably in his
tomb. Somehow he had to channel his anger
away from himself, back towards Drevin,
who had dealt with him as ruthlessly as any-
one else who had ever crossed his path.

Another sound. An engine overhead. Alex
felt a flicker of hope but quickly clamped
down on it. It wasn’t the sound of someone
coming to rescue him. Kolo had returned to
the surface. He had done his job and now he
was leaving.

Sure enough, the noise faded and died away.

Alex was alone.

There was one thing he had to know, al-
though he dreaded looking. He reached

356/539
down for his instrument console. How much
air had he used? The needle told him the
worst. He had 1,750 psi left. At 500 psi, the
gauge turned red. At that point, a spring-
operated shut-off valve inside the tank’s J-
valve would close. He would have a few
minutes left. And then he would die.

When he was sure he was back in control, he
swam forward again. Alex knew that at this
depth, he would soon get through what air he
had left. But moving too fast, using too much
energy, would only quicken the process. How
long did he have? Fifteen minutes at most.
Already he knew that his situation was hope-
less, and he forced himself to ignore the dark
whispers in his mind. Nobody knew he was
here. There was no way out. But he still had
to try. Better people than Drevin had tried to
kill him and failed. He was going to find a
way out.

357/539
The hatch was sealed shut. The windows
were too small. The floor, the ceiling and the
walls were solid.

There was just the single door that might
lead him to safety, and that was chained.
Alex looked around, then picked up one of
the Winchesters. There was no chance it
would fire after all these years underwater,
but it might still do. Carrying the old rifle, he
swam over to the door and, holding onto the
stock, slid the barrel through. He would use
it as a crowbar. Maybe he could prise the
door open; the chain was new but it was at-
tached to a handle that was old and might be
rotten. Using all his strength, Alex pulled.
Briefly he thought he could feel the metal
giving. He pulled harder and jerked back as
something snapped. The rifle.

He had broken the barrel in half.

He swam over to the pile and picked up an-
other. He could feel his gauges dragging

358/539
behind him, but he didn’t look at them again.
He was too afraid of what he would see. He
could hear his every breath; it echoed in his
ears. And every time he opened his mouth he
could see his precious-air supply disappear-
ing in a cloud of bubbles. He was hearing
and seeing his own death. It was being care-
fully measured out all around him.

The second rifle broke just as the first had
done. For a moment, Alex went mad. He
grasped the door with his hands and
wrenched at it as if he could tear it off its
hinges. Bubbles exploded around his head.

Blackness swirled around his eyes. When he
calmed down, little had changed. His fingers
were white, and he had cut the palm of one
hand.

And his air supply had dropped to 900 psi.
Only minutes left.

He had to move fast. No, moving fast would
only bring the end closer. But there had to be

359/539
another way out. He examined the windows
again. The largest of them was irregular in
shape—some of the metal had worn away.
Alex could just about fit his head and half his
shoulder through the gap. But that was it.
Even if he took off his tank, his waist and
hips would never make it through. He jerked
back, fearful that he was going to get stuck
and cut through his own air pipe. He hadn’t
achieved anything.

And his supply was now down to 650 psi.
The needle was only a millimetre above the
red.

Alex was cold. He had never been so cold in
his life. The wetsuit should have been trap-
ping some warmth for him but his hands and
arms were turning blue. There was no sun-
light in the hold. He was at the bottom of the
sea. But it was more than that. Alex knew he
was going to die. He would be found floating
in this hellish place, surrounded by rusting

360/539
machinery and memories of a war long over.
This time there was no way out.

500 psi.

How had that happened? Had he somehow
missed the last two minutes—two precious
minutes when he had so few left? Alex forced
himself to think. Was there anything else in
the hold that he could use? Maybe the ship
had been carrying artillery shells. He had
seen an anti-aircraft gun on the deck. Could
he perhaps blow his way out of here?

He began to search desperately for ammuni-
tion. As he did so he felt something in his
throat and knew that it was becoming more
difficult to breathe. His air supply was finally
running out. He wondered if he would faint
before he drowned. It seemed completely un-
fair. By a miracle, he had survived an assas-
sin’s bullet in London. And was it just for
this? For another even worse death just a few
weeks later?

361/539
Something grey flashed past one of the win-
dows. A large fish. A shark? Alex felt a sense
of total despair.

Even if by some miracle he did find a way
out, the creature would be waiting for him.
Perhaps it already knew he was there. In just
a few brief seconds, his situation had become
doubly hopeless.

But then he saw the grey shape again and
with a shock of disbelief realized that it
wasn’t a shark at all. It was a diver in a
wetsuit.

Someone was looking for him.

He had to force himself not to cry out. He
kicked hard with his fins and reached the last
window just as the diver was about to swim
by. Alex’s arm pushed through the jagged
gap and he caught hold of the diver’s leg. The
diver twisted round.

362/539
Brown hair floating loose. Blue eyes full of
worry behind the mask that covered them.
The diver hovered on the other side of the
window,
recognized Tamara
Knight.

and Alex

Desperately he made the distress signal that
he had been taught years before, chopping
with his hand in front of his throat. Out of
air. Help! He was finding it more and more
difficult to breathe, straining to draw what
was left in his tank, aware that his lungs were
never more than half filled. Tamara reached
into the pocket of her BCD and pulled
something out. She passed it through the
window. Alex was confused. He was holding
one of Paul Drevin’s inhalers. What good was
that? Then he realized she must have taken it
from his room. It was the gadget Smithers
had given him in New York. How had she
known about it?

And would it work underwater?

363/539
Dizzy, barely in control, Alex swam over to
the chained door. He had to struggle to re-
member how the inhaler worked. Twist the
cylinder twice clockwise. Why hadn’t Tamara
set it off herself? Of course, she couldn’t. It
was fingerprint sensitive. Alex had to do it.
Breathe! Now the inhaler was armed. He res-
ted it on the chain, then swam back further
into the hold.

10 psi. The needle on his air gauge didn’t
have much further to travel.

The door blew open. There was a ball of
flame, instantly extinguished, and Alex felt
the shock wave hit him,
throwing him
against the truck. He wasn’t breathing any
more; there was nothing left to breathe.

Where was Tamara? Alex had assumed that
there was a way out through the next hold,
but what if he was wrong?

Everything was going black. Either the blast
had knocked him out or he was suffocating.

364/539
But then he felt Tamara’s arms around him.
She was pulling his regulator out of his
mouth. It was useless, and he let it go. He felt
something touch his lips and realized she
had given him a second regulator, the oc-
topus attached to her own tank. He breathed
deeply and felt the rush of air into his lungs.
It was a wonderful sensation.

They stayed where they were for a few
minutes, their arms wrapped around each
other. Then Tamara gently nudged Alex on
the shoulder and pointed up. He nodded.
They were still a long way down and with the
two of them sharing a single tank, it wouldn’t
be long before Tamara’s air supply also ran
out.

Tamara swam through the broken door and
Alex followed. There was an open hatch and
they slipped through it, travelling slowly up.
They paused when their gauges showed five
metres. This was the safety stop that would
allow nitrogen to
their

seep out

of

365/539
bloodstream and prevent them from getting
the bends.

Five minutes later they completed their as-
cent, breaking through the surface into the
brilliant afternoon sun.

Alex had no air to inflate his BCD, so he un-
fastened his weight belt and let it fall. Then
he tore off his mask.

“How…?” he began.

“Later,” Tamara said.

It was a long swim back to the island and
Tamara wanted to make sure they weren’t
seen. They allowed the current to carry them
round Little Point, then kicked in for the
shore behind the house. Tamara checked
there were no guards in sight before they ran
across the beach and into the shelter of the
palm trees.

Alex heaved off his tank and threw himself
down onto the ground. He lay there panting.

366/539
Tamara was lying next to him. In her wet-
suit, with her hair loose and water trickling
down her face, she didn’t look anything like a
personal secretary … and suddenly Alex real-
ized that she had never really been one.

“That was too close for comfort,” she said.

Alex stared at her. “Who are you?” he asked.
But already he knew the answer. “CIA.”

Of course. Joe Byrne had told him he had
someone on the island.

“I’m sorry I’ve had to be so unfriendly to
you,” Tamara said. She gave him a dazzling
smile, as if it was something she had been
wanting to do all along. “I’m sure you under-
stand. It was my cover.”

“Sure.” It all made sense. “How did you find
me just now?” he asked.

“You’d already told me where you were go-
ing,” Tamara explained. “I don’t know why,
but I was nervous and I decided to follow

367/539
you. I went into your room and grabbed the
inhaler. I thought it might be useful and I
was right. Then I swam out. I was just near-
ing the site of the wreck, when I saw the boat
heading back without you and I guessed
what must have happened. So I came down
to find you.”

“Thank you.” Alex was feeling drowsy. The
late afternoon sun was beating down on him
and he was already dry. “So what happens
now?” he asked.

“You tell me.”

“I think Drevin may be planning to leave to-
night.” Quickly Alex told her about the phone
call he had overheard.

But Tamara looked doubtful. “I can’t believe
that,” she said. “The launch tomorrow … Ark
Angel. It means everything to him. He’s been
working on it for months. Why disappear
now?”

368/539
“I agree. But he definitely mentioned a boat.
It’s arriving at eleven o’clock.”

“Then we have to be there. There’s a backup
unit waiting in Barbados. If Drevin tries to
leave, we can contact them and they’ll be
here in minutes.”

“What do we do until then?”

“You’d better wait here. I’ll go back to the
house and get you some clothes. And
something to eat and drink.” She studied
Alex closely. “Are you OK?”

“I’m fine. Thanks, Tamara. You saved my
life.”

“It’s great to be working with you, Alex. Joe
told me all about you.”

Tamara slipped away, leaving Alex on his
own. He watched the waves breaking gently
on the white sand.

The sun was beginning to set and the first
shadows were
out,

stretching

already

369/539
reaching towards Alex and silently warning
him of the dangers of the coming night.

TROPICAL STORM

At ten o’clock that night, Alex and Tamara
were waiting on the edge of the rainforest,
looking down the track towards the wooden
cabins where the guards got washed and
changed. Both of them were dressed in dark
clothes. Tamara had picked out combat
trousers and a long-sleeved black T-shirt for
Alex. He was too hot.

The night had brought with it a clammy heat
that clung to his skin, and he could feel the
sweat snaking down his back. But this way
there was less chance of being seen, and he
was protected from the worst of
the
mosquitoes.

Tamara was also in black. From somewhere
she had produced a gun, a slim Beretta,
which she was wearing in a holster under her
arm. She also had a radio transmitter with
which she was planning to contact the CIA

371/539
back-up team—although she was worried
about the reception. The clouds were thick,
obscuring the moon, and it looked as if it was
going to rain. Getting a decent signal in the
middle of a tropical storm wouldn’t be easy.

Alex was glad she was with him. He had been
alone too long and it seemed to him that the
two of them were well suited. Tamara had
told him that she was one of the youngest
agents working for Joe Byrne; she had been
recruited when she was just nineteen. She
didn’t
look much older than that now,
crouched beside a giant
the
umbrella-shaped tree common to much of
the eastern Caribbean. He sensed that this
was one big adventure for her. Maybe that
was the difference between them. She en-
joyed her work.

flamboyant,

There were three cabins, connected by
covered walkways, beside the track. They
were fairly primitive: dark wooden planks for
walls, roofs made from palm fronds. About

372/539
twenty metres further down, Alex could
make out the electric gate and the checkpoint
guarding the launch area on the other side.
There were three guards on constant patrol,
one of them inside the control box, the other
two shuffling back and forth in front of the
ten metre high metal fence. The whole area
was illuminated by a series of arc lights shin-
ing down from metal watchtowers. Alex
could see hundreds of moths and mosquitoes
dancing in the beams.

The guards were relieved at ten fifteen. As
Drevin’s personal assistant, Tamara had
been able to see the roster and she knew that
the second night watch would be arriving at
any moment. Alex glanced back down the
track in the direction of Drevin’s house. He
thought briefly of Paul. Presumably he would
have been told that Alex had drowned … a
terrible accident. He wondered what Paul
would be thinking, and he was sorry that

373/539
Tamara hadn’t seen him when she’d gone
back to the house to fetch him some clothes.

But he couldn’t worry about that now. It was
time. The track was still empty; there was no
sign of any electric buggies coming either
way. Tamara nudged him and he crept for-
ward, keeping close to the undergrowth,
making his way to the first of the three cab-
ins. Very carefully he opened the door. There
had been no sound or movement for twenty
minutes, but even so there could still be
someone asleep in there.

The cabin was empty. Alex slipped inside
and found himself in a small, rectangular
space. There were a couple of old sofas, a
fridge and a table with empty beer bottles,
some pornographic magazines and a deck of
playing cards strewn across the surface. A
fan stood in one corner but it was switched
off. The room reeked of stale cigarette
smoke, and the air was sluggish and still.

374/539
He passed through this cabin and into the
next, an even smaller one with four shower
cubicles and a row of wooden benches. The
floor was tiled. Damp towels hung on hooks.
Again, there was nobody in sight.

It was in the third cabin that he found what
he was looking for. This was where the
guards got changed for work. Uniforms,
freshly ironed, hung in metal lockers; pol-
ished boots were neatly lined up against the
wall. Exactly as Tamara had described.

at

on

the

the

Alex couldn’t help smiling to himself as he
reached into his pocket and took out the
bottle that Smithers had given him. He
glanced
la-
bel—STINGO—then opened it and sprinkled
the contents over the guards’ uniforms. The
liquid was colourless and didn’t smell of any-
thing. The guards wouldn’t have any idea
what was about to hit them.

name

375/539
He heard a low whistle from outside: a warn-
ing from Tamara. There was a second door
leading out of the cabin and Alex slipped
through it into the darkness. Outside, he
heard an approaching buggy. Perfect timing.

It was the changing of the guard. As Alex re-
joined Tamara, a buggy drew up and three
men dressed in baggy shorts and T-shirts got
out. Alex recognized one of them. It was
Kolo, the diver who had left him to die. He
was pleased. If anyone deserved to suffer, it
was Kolo.

“Is this going to work?” Tamara whispered as
the three men disappeared into the changing
room.

“Don’t worry,” Alex replied. “Smithers has
never let me down.”

About five minutes later, the three men re-
appeared, now dressed in their grey overalls.
Alex and Tamara watched as they ap-
proached the checkpoint to swap places with

376/539
the three guards there. They exchanged a few
words in low voices, then took up their posi-
tions. The three who had been relieved went
back into the cabin to change and drove off
in the buggy a few minutes later.

“Let’s get closer,” Alex whispered. He was
keen to see whatever was going to happen.

Kolo was sitting in the control box, in front
of a bank of telephones and monitors. The
window was open so that he could commu-
nicate with the other two, who were now
armed and standing together in front of the
fence. It was a thankless task, Alex thought,
hanging around all night, waiting for
something to happen.

And although none of them knew it, it was
about to get worse.

Alex noticed it first. The cloud of insects vis-
ible in the beams of the arc lamps had
thickened. Before there had been hundreds
of them. Now there were thousands. It was

377/539
impossible to tell what kind of bugs they
were: beetles, flies, cockroaches or mosqui-
toes. They were just black specks made up of
frantically beating wings, antennae and
dangling legs. There were so many that the
light was almost obliterated.

Kolo slapped his face. The sound was sur-
prisingly loud in the thick heat of the night.
One of the other guards muttered something
and scratched under his arm. Kolo slapped
his face a second time, then the back of his
neck. The other men were beginning to
shuffle around edgily, as if performing a
weird dance.

One ran the stock of his machine gun down
his chest, then reached over his shoulder, us-
ing it to scratch his back. Inside the control
box, Kolo was swatting at the air in front of
his face. He seemed to be having trouble
breathing, and Alex could see why. The air
all around him had been invaded by thou-
sands and thousands of
insects. Kolo

378/539
couldn’t open his mouth without swallowing
them.

The mosquito lotion that Smithers had cre-
ated was awesome. Every insect on the island
had been attracted to the three unfortunate
men. The two outside were out of control,
slapping themselves, whimpering,
jerking
around like electric shock victims. Kolo
screamed. Alex could see a huge centipede
clinging to his neck. Very little of the man’s
skin was visible now. He was covered in a
mass of biting, stinging insects.

They were crawling into his eyes and up his
nose. Still screaming, he punched himself
frenziedly. The other two men were doing
the same.

There was a small explosion and a shower of
sparks as one of the television monitors, in-
vaded by insects, short-circuited. It was the
final
straw. Blind and swearing, Kolo
staggered to his feet and tumbled out of the

379/539
control box. The other two guards fell onto
him, clinging to him for support, and the
three of them began to grope their way to-
wards the showers and the changing room.

A huge cloud of insects followed them.

Suddenly everything was silent.

“You were right,” Tamara observed. “Your
Mr Smithers is pretty good.”

The two of them hurried past the now deser-
ted checkpoint, through the gate and along
the track on the other side. The rainforest
soon ended and they could make out the
gantries with the rockets ahead. There was
still no moon.

Tamara looked up. “We’re going to get wet,”
she announced.

She was right. A few minutes later, the
clouds opened and they were instantly
drenched. The rain was warm and fell from
the sky as if poured from an enormous

380/539
bucket. A sheet of lightning pulsed over the
sea, reflected in the ground that was being
churned up all around them. Everything had
become black and white.

“What will happen to the launch?” Alex
shouted. There was no longer any need to
whisper. Tamara could hardly hear him
against the crashing rain.

She shook water out of her eyes and shouted
back, “It won’t make any difference. The rain
won’t last long.

Everything will be dry by
morning.”

tomorrow

In fact, the storm couldn’t have broken at a
better time. The launch area was a quarter of
a mile of completely open land and Alex had
wondered how they would cross it without
being seen. He had no doubt that there
would be other guards on patrol and
probably
rain

closed-circuit

TV.

The

381/539
provided perfect cover. In their dark clothes,
he and Tamara were invisible.

The second jetty was on the western point of
the island, connected to the rocket gantries
and the various control buildings by a white
cement track. Alex and Tamara were jogging
towards it when a light suddenly burst out,
cutting through the rain. It was mounted on
a boat that was heading towards the shore,
fighting its way through the tumultuous
waves.

“This way!” Tamara yelled and pulled Alex
towards a brick outbuilding with a tangle of
metal pipes and gauges outside. As they ran,
she tripped. Alex managed to catch her be-
fore she fell, and a few moments later they
were safely concealed behind a water tank.
The jetty was right in front of them. Alex
wondered if Drevin was about to appear.

The boat reached the jetty. The rain was
coming down even more heavily and it was

to

382/539
difficult
see what was happening.
Someone jumped down with a rope. More
figures appeared on the deck. Alex had
thought that Drevin was planning his exit
from the island, but it looked as if the boat
had brought new arrivals—

people who didn’t want to be seen.

Alex heard a sound behind him and turned
to see Magnus Payne and two guards drive
down the track towards the boat. The ginger
hair and lifeless skin of the island’s head of
security were unmistakable even in a tropical
storm. They reached the jetty and Payne got
out. Four men climbed down from the boat.
Alex grabbed hold of Tamara, shocked. He
knew who the men were, even though he had
never learnt their real names.

Combat Jacket. Spectacles. Steel Watch and
Silver Tooth.

Force Three had come to Flamingo Bay. But
why? What did it mean? Magnus Payne was

383/539
shaking their hands, welcoming them. This
was the terrorist group that had sworn to
destroy Drevin. But they were being greeted
like old friends.

And then a voice crackled out of the storm,
amplified by hidden speakers, echoing all
around.

“Do not fire! We know you are there. Drop
your weapons and come out with your hands
up.”

The five men froze. Two of them pulled out
guns. But the words weren’t being addressed
to them.

If Alex had any doubts that it was he and
Tamara who were being targeted, they were
dispelled a few seconds later. Four more
buggies had come racing out of the rain.
They slid to a halt, facing him, their head-
lights dazzling him. A dozen black shadows
came tumbling out and took up positions
around them.

384/539
Next to him Tamara tensed, then sprang into
action, drawing her gun. There was a single
shot, fired from one of the buggies. Tamara
cried out. Her gun spun away. Blood began
to seep from a wound in her shoulder,
spreading rapidly down her sleeve.

“That was your last warning!” the voice
boomed. “Stand up and move slowly for-
ward. If you resist, you will be shot.”

How had they been found? Alex thought
back and remembered Tamara stumbling. A
tripwire. That had to be it. As they had run,
she had triggered an alarm.

Magnus Payne pushed his way through the
line of guards. The four members of Force
Three followed. The whole area had been
empty only minutes before; now it was
swarming. Tamara was
her
wounded shoulder. Alex stood next to her,
sick at heart.

clutching

385/539
And then Nikolei Drevin appeared, dressed
in a light raincoat and—bizarrely—holding a
brightly coloured golfing umbrella that shiel-
ded him from the downpour. He seemed re-
laxed, as if he’d simply decided to go for a
late-night stroll. He stood in front of Alex
and Tamara. There was very little emotion in
his face.

“Miss Knight,” he said, and although he
spoke softly, the words carried even above
the sound of the rain.

“I always did have my doubts about you. Or
rather, I suspected that the CIA would try to
infiltrate my operation, and you seemed the
most likely choice. How very sad I am to
have my fears confirmed.”

“The boy…” Magnus Payne had reached
Drevin’s side.

“Yes. It seems your man didn’t quite finish
the job.” Drevin stepped forward until he
was centimetres away from Alex. Alex didn’t

386/539
flinch; rain streamed down his face. “Tell me,
Alex,” Drevin asked. “I’d be interested to
know who you’re working for. Is it MI6 or
the CIA? Or perhaps both?”

“Go to hell,” Alex replied quietly.

“I’m truly sorry that you chose to make your-
self my enemy,” Drevin continued. “I liked
you from the start.

So did Paul. But you have abused my hospit-
ality, Alex. A great mistake.”

Alex was silent. Next to him Tamara had
gone very pale. She had one hand clamped
over her wound and was obviously in pain.
But she was still defiant. “The CIA know
we’re here, Drevin,” she said. “You do any-
thing to us, they’re going to be crawling all
over you. You’re not getting away; you’ve got
nowhere to go.”

“Whatever made you think I was planning to
go anywhere?” Drevin retorted. “Lock the

387/539
girl up,” he ordered. “I don’t want to see her
again. Magnus—bring Alex Rider to the main
hangar. I want to talk to him.”

Drevin turned and walked away. It only took
three paces and he had disappeared into the
rain.

PRIMARY TARGET

The main hangar was huge. Perhaps this was
where the Cessna was kept when it wasn’t in
use. The roof was a great curve of corrugated
iron. One wall slid back to allow access to the
launch site. There were various pieces of ma-
chinery and a few oil drums scattered
around, but otherwise the hangar was bare.
Alex was tied to a wooden chair. Drevin was
sitting opposite; Magnus Payne was standing
beside him. Combat Jacket, Silver Tooth,
Spectacles and Steel Watch were grouped to-
gether a short distance away. They had been
invited to the party but it was clear that
Drevin didn’t expect them to join in.

The rain had stopped as suddenly as it had
started. Alex could hear the water stilt gurg-
ling in the gutters and there were a few last
drops pattering on the roof. The air in the
hangar was warm and damp. He was soaked.

389/539
Payne had used a length of electrical wire to
bind him to the chair and it was cutting into
his flesh.

His hands and feet were numb.

Drevin was wearing a light blue cashmere
jersey and cords. He was relaxed, holding a
giant brandy glass in one hand, two centi-
metres of pale golden liquid forming a per-
fect circle in the bottom. He raised it to his
nose and sniffed appreciatively.

“This is a Louis XIII cognac,” he said. “It’s
thirty years old. A single bottle costs more
than a thousand pounds. It’s the only cognac
I drink.”

“I knew you were rich,” Alex said. “I also
knew you were greedy. But I didn’t know you
were boring as well.”

“There are five men here who would be only
too glad to deal with you if I were to allow it,”
Drevin replied mildly. “Perhaps you would

390/539
do better to keep your mouth shut and listen
to what I have to say.”

He swirled the brandy and took a sip.

“I have to confess, I’m fascinated by you.”
The grey eyes studied Alex closely. “When
Magnus told me you were an MI6 agent, I
laughed. I simply couldn’t believe it. But
when I look back over everything that’s
happened, it makes perfect sense. I met Alan
Blunt once and thought him a most devious
and unpleasant individual. This confirms my
impression. Even so, I find it hard to accept
that he sent you after me. Is that what
happened, Alex? Were you planted from the
very start?”

“He’d been shot,” Payne growled. “I’ve seen
copies of his hospital records. That was real
enough.”

“Then perhaps it was no more than an un-
happy coincidence. Unhappy, that is, for you.
But I’m glad we have this time together.

391/539
Although I’m afraid that both you and Miss
Knight must be dispensed with soon, at least
I’ve been given the opportunity to explain
myself to you. You see, Alex, I’d like Paul to
know about me.
I’d like to tell him
everything I’m about to tell you. But he’s
weak. He’s not ready yet. He might even end
up hating me for what I am. But you, I know,
will understand.”

Drevin lowered his nose into the glass and
breathed in deeply.

“I am, as you mentioned just now, a rich
man. One of the richest men on the planet. I
employ a team of accountants who work for
me full-time all the year round, and even
they are unsure quite how much I am worth.
You have no idea what it’s like, Alex, to be
able to have anything you want. I can walk
into a shop to buy a suit and decide instead
to buy the shop. If I see a new car or ship or
plane in a magazine, it can be mine before
the end of the day. At the last count I had

392/539
eleven houses around the world. I can sleep
in a different country every day of the week
and wake up in yet another little bit of
paradise.

“Of course, as you’ve probably been told, this
wealth did not come to me in a way that you
might describe as honest. Such terms are of
no interest to me. I am a criminal; I freely
admit it. I have killed many people person-
ally and countless more have died as a result
of my orders. Many of my associates are
criminals.

Why should this trouble me? There’s not a
successful businessman alive who has not at
some time cheated or lied. We all do it! It’s
just a question of degree.

“I have been hugely successful for the past
twenty years, and I fully intend to become
richer and more successful in the years to
come. However”—Drevin’s
grew
dark—“about eighteen months ago I became

face

393/539
aware of two small problems, and these have
forced me into a particular course of action.
They are the reason why you are here now,
Alex. They are problems that could all too
easily destroy me and which I have spent a
great deal of time and money seeking to
overcome.”

“Why are you telling me all this if you’re
planning to kill me?” Alex asked.

“It is because I’m planning to kill you that I
can tell you,” Drevin replied. “There will be
no danger of you repeating what you hear.
But please don’t interrupt again, Alex, or I
shall have to ask Magnus to hurt you.”

He closed his eyes briefly. When he opened
them again, he was fully composed.

“The first problem,” he said, “concerns the
State Department of
the United States,
which decided to investigate some of my fin-
ancial dealings, particularly those involving
the Russian mafiya. Of course, I have been

394/539
aware right from the start that they were
building a ease against me. I have always
been a careful man. I avoid written evidence
and make sure there are no witnesses who
might incriminate me. But even so, it would
not be possible to act on the scale that I do
without leaving some trace of myself, and I
knew that the Americans were squirreling
away the bits and pieces, talking to anyone
who’d ever met me

—and that sooner or later they were planning
to bring me to court.

“The obvious solution to this seemed to be to
destroy the US State Department and in par-
ticular the men and women whose job it had
been to meddle in my affairs. It occurred to
me that in one respect they were actually be-
ing quite helpful. They had gathered all the
evidence together: a case of putting all their
eggs in one basket! With a single, well-aimed
missile, I could kill all the investigators and
destroy all the tapes, files, scraps of paper,

records,

computer

395/539
telephone
prin-
touts—everything! I could begin again with a
completely clean sheet. The more I thought
about it, the more grateful I became to the
Americans for what they were doing.

“Of course, it wasn’t going to be easy. Be-
cause, you see, the investigation was based in
one of the most secure buildings in the
world—the Pentagon in Washington. The
place is nothing more than a huge slab of
concrete—and much of it underground. It
employs an anti-terrorist force that operates
twenty-four hours a day. Every form of mon-
itoring device you could imagine can be
found there, and since 9/11, no commercial
plane can get anywhere near. The Pentagon
is thoroughly protected against chemical,
biological and radiological attack. I know,
because I considered them all. But even a
brief examination showed me that any such
approach was doomed to failure.

396/539
“And now, if you’ll permit me, I’ll move on to
the second problem that I mentioned. It may
seem completely unrelated to the first. For a
long time, I thought it was. But you will see
in a minute how it all connects.”

Alex said nothing. He was aware of Magnus
Payne and the men who made up Force
Three watching him.

He was still wondering how they fitted into
all this. And where was Kaspar, the man with
the tattooed skull? Even now, nothing quite
added up. Alex shifted in the chair, trying to
get some feeling back into his hands and
feet.

“My other problem was Ark Angel,” Drevin
went on. “Space tourism has always inter-
ested me, Alex, and when the British govern-
ment approached me to go into partnership
with them, I must confess I was flattered. I
would benefit from the money they would
put
the

into the project. I would be at

397/539
forefront of one of the most challenging and
potentially profitable enterprises of
the
twenty-first century. And it would provide
me with the one thing I most needed: re-
spectability! The Americans might view me
as a criminal, but it would give them pause
for thought when they saw that I was having
supper with the Queen. It occurred to me
that they might find it rather more difficult
to drag me off to prison when I was Sir
Nikolei Drevin. Or even Lord Drevin. Some-
times it helps to have the right contacts.

“And so I agreed to become partners with
your government in the Ark Angel project,
the world’s first space hotel. It’s above us
right now. It’s always above us. And I can
never forget it. Because, you see, it has be-
come a nightmare, a catastrophe. Even
without the Americans and their investiga-
tion, Ark Angel could easily destroy me.”

Drevin frowned and took a large sip of
brandy.

398/539
“Ark Angel is billions of pounds over budget.
It’s sucking me dry. Even with all my wealth
I can no longer support it. And it’s all the
fault of your stupid government. They can’t
make a decision without talking about it for
months. They have committees and subcom-
mittees. And when they do make a decision,
it’s always the wrong one. I should have
known from the start. Look at the Scottish
parliament!
The Millennium Dome!
Everything the British government builds
costs ten times as much as it should and
doesn’t even work.

“Ark Angel is the same. It’s late, it’s leaking
and it’s lost any hope of ever being com-
pleted. The whole thing is falling apart. And
for months now I’ve been thinking, if only
the wretched thing would simply fall out of
the sky. I could scrape back at least some of
my money because, like every major project,
it is insured. More than that, I’d be able to
wipe my hands of it. I’d be able to wake up

399/539
without having it, quite literally, hanging
over my head. There were days when I seri-
ously considered paying someone to blow it
up.

“And that, Alex, is when I had my big idea.
It’s as I told you. Two problems that came to-
gether with one single solution.”

Drevin leant forward and at last Alex saw
quite clearly the madness in his eyes.

“I wonder how much you know about phys-
ics, Alex. Even as we sit here now, there are
hundreds of objects orbiting above us in out-
er space, from small communications satel-
lites to giant space stations such as the ISS
and Mir before
you ever
wondered what keeps them there? What
stops them from falling down?

that. Have

“Well, the answer is a fairly simple equation
consisting of their speed balanced against
their distance from the earth. You might be
amused to know that, theoretically, it would

400/539
be possible for a satellite to orbit the earth
just a few metres above your head. But it
would have to go impossibly fast. Ark Angel
is three hundred miles away. It’s therefore
able to maintain its orbital velocity at just
seventeen and a half thousand miles per
hour. But even so, every few months it has to
be reboosted. The same was true for Mir
when it was in orbit, and for the Internation-
al Space Station now. Every few months,
rockets which are known as progress vehicles
have to push all these large satellites back in-
to space. Otherwise they’d come crashing
down.

“In fact, some of them do exactly that. The
Russian space probe Mars 96 fell out of the
sky on 17 November 1996 and the pieces
rained down across South America. In April
2000 the second stage of a Delta rocket nar-
rowly missed Cape Town. The world has
been very lucky that so far there has been no
major
three

catastrophe. Well,

almost

401/539
quarters of the planet is water. There are
huge deserts and mountain ranges.

The chances of a piece of space junk hitting a
populated area are relatively small. Even so,
most astronomers would agree, it is an acci-
dent waiting to happen.

“Are you finding this hard to follow? I’ll
make it easy for you. Imagine swinging a
conker on a piece of string around your
hand. If you slow down, the conker will fall
and hit your hand. And there you have it.

The conker is the space station; your hand is
the earth. It doesn’t take a great deal to cause
one to crash into the other.

“And that is exactly what I intend to do.

“Tomorrow, when Gabriel 7 blasts off, it will
be carrying a bomb which has been exactly
timed and which must be exactly positioned
within Ark Angel. Everything has been
worked out on computers and the program is

402/539
locked in. If you look at a map, you will find
that Washington is positioned at around
thirty-eight degrees north. The angle of in-
clination followed by Ark Angel—its flight
path—is also thirty-eight degrees. This
means that every time it orbits the earth, it
passes directly over Washington.

“The bomb wilt go off two hours after Gabriel
7 has docked with Ark Angel—at exactly half
past four. This will have the effect of knock-
ing Ark Angel out of its orbit. The space sta-
tion will begin to topple towards the earth. It
will enter the earth’s atmospheric drag and
after that things will begin to happen very
quickly.

The more atmosphere that surrounds it, the
faster it will
fall. Soon it will be tum-
bling—out of control. Or that is how it will
seem. In fact, I have secretly programmed
what are known as de-orbit manoeuvres into
Ark Angel. Although it will seem to be

403/539
moving haphazardly, it will be as accurate as
an independently targeted nuclear missile.

“Can you imagine it, Alex? Ark Angel weighs
about seven hundred tonnes. Of course,
much of it will burn up as it re-enters the
earth’s atmosphere. But
I estimate that
about sixty per cent of it will survive. That’s
about four hundred tonnes of molten steel,
glass, beryllium and aluminium travelling at
around fifteen thousand miles an hour. The
Pentagon is the primary target. The building
will be destroyed. All the people working
there will die, and every last scrap of inform-
ation will be incinerated. I rather suspect
that the shock wave will destroy most of
Washington too. The Capitol. The White
House. The various monuments.

The parks. A shame, because I’ve always
thought it a rather attractive city. But very
little of it will be left.”

404/539
Alex closed his eyes. Jack Starbright was in
Washington, visiting her parents. Maybe she
would survive the hideous explosion that
Drevin had planned. But
thousands of
people—hundreds of thousands—would not.
Once again Alex found himself wondering
how he had got himself into this. Had it
really all begun with a doctor ordering him
two weeks’ R & R?

“And now I must tell you about Force Three,”
Drevin said.

“You don’t need to,” Alex replied. He had
worked this part out for himself. “You need
someone to take the blame. Force Three
don’t exist. You invented them.”

“Exactly.” Drevin waved his glass at the four
men standing near by. “I consider Force
Three to be the most brilliant aspect of the
entire operation. Obviously, if Ark Angel is
sabotaged, if it falls on the Pentagon, I will
be the main suspect. So I had to create a

405/539
scapegoat. I had to make sure that I was
above suspicion.

“I created Force Three. I hired the men you
see here now. Under my instructions, they
committed several acts of
terrorism that
seemed to be directed against capitalist con-
cerns. They blew up a car manufacturing
plant in Dakota, a factory in Japan, a GM re-
search centre in New Zealand. I also paid a
journalist working in Berlin and a lecturer in
London to speak out against Force Three, to
warn the world about them. I then promptly
had them murdered. Do you see? I was creat-
ing the illusion of a ruthless group of eco-
warriors who hated anyone involved in big
business—and who particularly hated me.”

“You kidnapped your own son!” Alex ex-
claimed. At last the events at the hospital
and Hornchurch Towers were beginning to
make sense.

406/539
“I told you. I had to be seen to be above sus-
picion. The world had to believe that Force
Three were my enemy. What sort of father
would allow his own son to be kidnapped
just days after an operation—”

“But they got it wrong,” Alex interrupted.
“They took me instead of him.” He thought
back to the time when he had been held pris-
oner and his head swam. “They were going to
cut off Paul’s finger! Did you really order
them to do that?”

“Of course.” For the first time, Drevin looked
troubled. Alex could see him struggling with
his emotions,
forcing them down. “The
threat had to be credible. If Paul had been
maimed, nobody would have suspected that I
had anything to do with it. And when Force
Three attacked me here on Flamingo Bay, I
would be the victim.”

“But that’s monstrous!” Alex protested. “He’s
your son!”

407/539
“Maybe a little pain would have toughened
him up,” Drevin retorted. “The boy is too
soft. And one day he is going to inherit bil-
lions. The whole world will be his. Is one
little finger too much to ask in return?”

“It must be great having you as a dad!” Alex
sneered.

“You will die very painfully if you continue to
speak to me in that way!” Drevin finished his
brandy. He was suddenly flushed and out of
breath. “The only mistake I made was not
providing Kaspar with a photograph of Paul.
We knew his room number; we knew there
would be no security at the hospital. How
could
another
boy—you—would decide to get involved?”

know

we

that

“Is that why you tried to kill me in the fire?”
Alex asked.

“No.” Drevin shook his head. “We needed
you alive. That was the whole point. Paul had
been saved from his ordeal but we still

408/539
needed someone to tell the world that it was
Force Three behind the kidnap attempt.

Killing you would have been no use to us at
all. You were meant to escape. There was a
chair in the room so that you could climb up
through the ceiling and over the wall into the
corridor. The fire was deliberately started
away from the stairwell so that you could get
out of the building.”

“But one of your people was waiting for me
with a gun.” Alex looked at the man he knew
only as Combat Jacket. This was the man
who had shot the night receptionist at the
hospital. He was gazing at Alex with watery
eyes that were too small and too close to his
broken nose.

Drevin was obviously hearing this for the
first time. “Is this true?” he asked.

“He’s lying,” Combat Jacket said. It was the
first time he had spoken. “I let him go like
you said. I never went near him.”

409/539
Alex understood. He’d humiliated Combat
Jacket. And the man had disobeyed orders to
get his revenge.

He was the one who was lying. It was obvi-
ous to everyone there; they could hear it in
his voice.

Drevin shrugged. “It makes no difference,”
he said, and Combat Jacket relaxed. “You
may be wondering why Force Three have
come to the island, Alex. It’s because I have
one last use for them. The launch is timed for
nine o’clock tomorrow morning. The bomb
will go off at half past four in the afternoon.
And as Ark Angel comes crashing down on
Washington, a fight will break out here on
Flamingo Bay. Intruders will have been dis-
covered. My men will shoot to kill. And when
the authorities come calling and the investig-
ation begins, I will be able to give them the
final proof that Force Three were respons-
ible. You have described the men who

410/539
kidnapped you, Alex. Tomorrow their bullet-
ridden bodies will be on display.”

Now it was Silver Tooth who spoke. Spec-
tacles and Steel Watch were also looking un-
easy. “How are you going to fake that?” he
asked.

Drevin smiled. “Who said I was going to fake
it?”

The chatter of gunfire was so loud and so
close that Alex nearly toppled over in the
chair. The four fake terrorists didn’t stand a
chance. They were dead before they could re-
act, blown off their feet onto the cold con-
crete floor. Alex twisted round. Magnus
Payne was holding one of the Mini Uzis.
There was a dreadful smile on his face. A
cloud of smoke hovered around his hands.

“You’re insane!” Alex spat out the words
without knowing what he was saying. “You’re
never going to get away with it! They’ll know
it was you…”

411/539
“They may well suspect it was me, but it’s go-
ing to be almost impossible to prove,” Drevin
retorted. “I’m afraid I’m the victim in all
this.”

“But what about me? What about Tamara? If
you kill us, the CIA will come after you!”

“The CIA are already after me. What differ-
ence will another couple of bodies make? I’m
afraid you and Miss Knight wilt be found on
the beach. Accidentally caught in the cross-
fire. A terrible shame. But not my fault.”

“And what about Kaspar?” Why had Alex
thought of him? He was the one piece miss-
ing from this crazy jigsaw. If Force Three had
been working for Drevin all along, then so
had Kaspar. But where was he?

“Show him,” Drevin ordered.

Magnus Payne put down the sub-machine
gun. He reached up and took hold of his
ginger hair. A wig. He pulled it off, then

412/539
ripped at his skin. Alex should have recog-
nized the latex. He had recently worn a sim-
ilar disguise himself. He watched in dismay
as the head of security seemed to tear his
own face apart and the dreadful tattoos ap-
peared underneath. In just a few seconds the
magic trick was complete. Magnus Payne
was gone; Kaspar stood in his place.

“The tattoos were rather painful and un-
pleasant,” Drevin commented. “But we had
to create a terrorist leader people would re-
member. I’d say we succeeded, wouldn’t
you?”

Alex felt utterly defeated. He remembered
now his
first meeting with Payne on
Flamingo Bay. The head of security had dis-
guised his voice, of course. But even so, Alex
had been sure he’d seen him somewhere be-
fore. And Payne had known immediately
who he was. Both he and Paul had been in
the buggy when Drevin introduced them,
and Payne was supposed to be meeting them

413/539
both for the first time. But he had known im-
mediately which was which. Of course. He
had recognized Alex.

“We’ll arrange the bodies on the beach after
the launch,” Drevin said to Kaspar. “And
we’ll add the boy and the woman then.” He
put down his glass and stood up. “Goodbye,
Alex. I enjoyed meeting you very much. I
would have liked to get to know you better.
But I’m afraid we’ve reached the end.”

He tugged at his ring one last time as if there
was something he had forgotten to say. The
men who had pretended to be Force Three,
and whose names Alex would never know,
lay sprawled on the floor.

Kaspar stepped forward and grabbed hold of
the chair. Alex was helpless as his chair was
tilted backwards and he was dragged away.

WIND AND WATER

Kaspar drove Alex across the compound to a
flat, rectangular building with barred win-
dows and a door with steps leading down,
just below the level of the ground. Alex could
no longer think of the other man as Magnus
Payne. Drevin’s head of security hadn’t
bothered to replace his wig or mask, and
even in the darkness the hideous map of the
world still glowed livid on his skin. Alex
wondered how much he had been paid to
disfigure himself. Whatever the sum,
it
would probably cost him just as much one
day to pay for the laser surgery to remove the
tattoos.

Alex had been untied from the wooden chair
but his hands were still bound. As they got
out of the buggy, he tested the wire, attempt-
ing to find some slack. It seemed to him that,
given time, he might be able to free himself.

415/539
Not that it would do him much good. The
building in front of him looked like a prison.
And Kaspar knew what he was capable of. He
wasn’t going to make any more mistakes.

They went down the steps into a large area
filled with electronic equipment, computers
and workstations.

A model of a space probe—gleaming steel
with circuitry spilling everywhere—took up
most of the room.

Alex noticed two sets of what looked like
tracksuits hanging on a rail. They both had
the Ark Angel logo stitched onto the sleeve.
He supposed they must be the outfits worn
by astronauts.

“This way,” Kaspar grunted. He gestured
with his gun towards another flight of stairs
leading down.

Alex obeyed and found himself in a wide cor-
ridor with two solid-looking cages on either

416/539
side. As he stepped forward, he heard a
screeching and jabbering from the first cage,
and to his surprise an orang-utan bounded
towards him, crashing its fists against the
bars. Then he remembered. Drevin had said
he was planning to send an ape into
space—some sort of endurance experiment.

“Meet Arthur,” Kaspar said. There was an
ugly smile on his face.

“Is he any relation?” Alex asked.

The remark earned him a sharp jab with the
gun. But the pain was quickly forgotten. He
had looked into the next cage and seen
Tamara Knight, still very pale but alive. She
smiled at Alex but said nothing while Kaspar
opened the door of the cage opposite.

“In here,” he ordered.

Alex had no choice. He stepped inside and
waited while Kaspar locked the door behind
him. He looked around. The cage was about

417/539
two metres square. The bars were solid steel.
The lock was brand new. Alex had no gadgets
on him and his hands were still tied. He was
going nowhere.

Kaspar removed the key and slipped it into
his pocket. “I’ll leave the three of you togeth-
er.” He glanced at his watch. It was almost
one o’clock in the morning. “You’ll hear the
rocket launch,” he said. “And as soon as it’s
gone, someone’ll come for you. They’ll take
you to the beach and that’ll be the end.” The
corner of West Africa twisted in a grimace of
pure hatred.

Alex had seen it all before. The bigger the
criminals,
the more they resented being
beaten by a teenager.

And Alex had beaten Kaspar twice. “I’m just
sorry I won’t be the one holding the gun,”
Kaspar went on.

“But I’ll be thinking of you. I hope it won’t be
too quick.”

418/539
He walked away. Alex heard his footsteps on
the stairs. The main door opened and closed.
Arthur the orang-utan stalked to the back of
his cage and sat down.

“Charming guy,” Tamara muttered.

“Tamara, are you OK?” Alex had been wor-
ried about her, and he was relieved to see her
now.

“I’ve been better,” she admitted. “Was that
Magnus Payne just now?”

Alex nodded.

“I thought I recognized his voice. What
happened to his head?”

Alex told her. He also told her about his
meeting in the hangar and Drevin’s plan to
destroy Washington.

Tamara was kneeling against the door of her
cage,
listening closely. When he finished
talking she let out a deep sigh. It seemed to

419/539
Alex that even more colour had drained from
her face.

“We thought he was going to cut and run,”
she said. “We thought he was finished. We
never figured he was going to come up with
something like this.”

“Can he really do it?” Alex asked.

Tamara thought for a moment, then nodded.
“Maybe. I don’t know. He’d have to work
everything out right down to the last second.
The explosion. All the rest of it. But, yes…
I’m afraid he probably can.”

“We have to contact Joe Byrne.”

“The guards took my radio transmitter. I
imagine they’ll have taken your iPod too.”

“What about the phones?”

“There are radio phones on the island but
Drevin will have disabled them, just in case.
And ordinary mobiles are no good; you can’t
get a signal. I don’t know, Alex. Either we’re

420/539
going to have to stop him ourselves or one of
us is going to have to go for help.”

“Barbados…”

“It’s only about ten miles from here. Ed Shul-
sky is waiting at Harrison Point; he’s got
plenty of back-up.

Maybe you could steal a boat.”

“Why me? Why not both of us?”

Tamara shook her head. “I’m sorry, Alex. But
I’ve got a bullet in my shoulder. I’d only slow
you down.”

Alex lashed out at the cage door with his
foot. The bars rattled. It was obvious to him
that he wasn’t going anywhere, and he said
so.

“Maybe I can help you,” Tamara said. She
was wearing trainers and as Alex watched,
she reached down and pulled out the laces.
“Catch!” She slipped her uninjured arm

421/539
between the bars of her cage and threw the
laces over to Alex.

“What—”

“You’re not
the only one with gadgets.
There’s
tungsten wire inside the laces.
Diamond-edged. You can cut through the
bars.”

“That’s neat,” he said, though secretly he
wished that
the CIA had come up with
something less clumsy and perhaps a little
more efficient.

“They removed my exploding earrings,”
Tamara added, as if reading his mind.

Alex took one of the laces and examined the
door. The steel bars were strong but they
were thin and he would only have to cut
through three of them to squeeze through.
His job wouldn’t be made easier by the fact
that his hands were tied, but perhaps he
could deal with that too.

“How much time do we have?” he asked.

“Not much. It gets light around six, and if
you’re not out by then, I don’t think you’ll
have much chance.”

422/539

“Right.”

Alex looped the lace over the wire between
his wrists, then grabbed the dangling ends
with his teeth. He pulled the lace tight and
began to jerk his hands in a vague sawing
motion. In less than a minute his wrists were
free. He saw Tamara smile. Now he could be-
gin work in earnest.

The bars weren’t so easy. It took well over
half an hour to make the first cut, and Alex
was disappointed to discover that even after
it had been severed near its base, the bar
wouldn’t bend. He had to make a second
cut—another half-hour’s work—before it fi-
nally fell to the floor with a clang. Alex
cursed himself. If there were any guards up-
stairs, the noise would have alerted them.

423/539
But he was lucky. Nobody came. It seemed
that the two of them were on their own.

Tamara hadn’t spoken while he was working
but now she nodded at him. “Keep going!”
she encouraged.

“What time is it?”

“I don’t know. They took my watch.”

That was the worst of it. As Alex started on
the second bar, he had no idea how much
time had passed. All he knew was that he was
worn out. He needed to sleep. And he had
blisters on his thumbs, his fingers and the
heels of his hands where they had rubbed
together.

The night dragged on. He sat hunched up in
the cage, sawing back and forth. Tamara was
watching him.

The orang-utan had turned his back on both
of them and seemed to be asleep.

424/539
At last it was done. The third bar came loose,
leaving enough space for Alex to slip through
into the corridor. He went over to Tamara.

“I’m going to get you out,” he said.

“No, Alex.”

“I can’t just leave you here.”

Tamara shook her head. “You don’t have a
lot of time. Get to Barbados. Find Ed.” She
leant back. Although she was trying not to
show it, Alex could see that she was in a lot
of pain. “I’ll be all right,” she went on.

“I’ve got Arthur to keep me company. Now
go, before someone comes.”

Alex knew she was right. He picked up one of
the loose bars and climbed back up the
stairs. Looking through the window, he was
alarmed to see streaks of pink light stealing
across the inky sky. It must be well after six
o’clock, less than three hours to the launch.

425/539
He went over to the door and opened it a
crack. There was a guard sitting in a chair,
wearing grey overalls and a cap. Alex smiled
to himself. For once luck was on his side. The
man was fast asleep. He gripped the metal
bar more tightly. He had thought it might
come in useful.

Ten minutes later, dressed in the guard’s
uniform and with the cap pulled down low
over his forehead, Alex drove an electric
buggy back towards the checkpoint. Without
slowing down, he held out the guard’s ID,
angling his arm so that it covered most of his
face. He was prepared to crash through the
gate if he had to, and he was relieved when it
opened to let him pass. It seemed that secur-
ity on Flamingo Bay needed a serious over-
haul. But then again, he and Tamara were
supposed to be locked up. The place was an
island, ten miles away from the nearest land.
What was there for Drevin or anyone else to
worry about?

and

brake—and

426/539
The buggy was easy to drive, with only two
pedals—accelerator
no
gears. He put his foot down and sped
through the rainforest, aware that the sky
was getting lighter all the time. Drevin’s
house and the far end of the island, Little
Point, appeared in the distance. Alex turned
the wheel and spun off the track, steering the
buggy down between the palm trees towards
the beach. It made it about halfway before it
got stuck in the sand. That was good enough
for Alex. He jumped out and ran down to the
jetty.

There were two canoes and a boat moored
there—a Princess V55 motor cruiser. A canoe
would be too slow.

But the boat? It was a beautiful craft, very
low in the water, its bow shaped like a knife,
built for speed.

Alex looked for the key in the ignition. Why
not? One guard had been asleep. Another

427/539
hadn’t even looked at him as he drove past. A
third might have made the clumsiest mistake
of all.

But this time he was disappointed. There was
no key. He searched all the cupboards and
lockers in the main cabin, but there was
nothing. Frustrated, Alex rested his hands on
the. wheel and forced himself
to think
calmly. Drevin’s house was in sight. He was
tempted to steal in and try to get hold of a
telephone. But Tamara had warned him that
all the phones on the island would be dis-
abled, and Alex believed her. Might he find a
key to the Princess in the house? It was pos-
sible but the risk was too great. Alex looked
up. The sky was brightening rapidly, the
darkness trickling away like spilt ink. Dawn
had broken. Drevin might wake up at any
moment.

No phones. No boats. Barbados was ten
miles away—too far to swim or to paddle in a
canoe. Alex knew what he had to do. He had

428/539
worked it out when he was sawing through
the bars of the cage, but he’d hoped he would
be able to find another way. Well, there was
no other way. He might as well get on with it.

He jumped down from the boat and ran
along the beach, making for the house. But
he wasn’t going in.

Instead, he went round the back to the
equipment store where Kolo had taken him
before the dive. It occurred to Alex that he
might find a key to the motor launch some-
where inside, but he wasn’t going to waste
any more time looking. The store was where
Paul Drevin kept his power kite and board.
That was what Alex had come for.

But even as he found the kite and began to
bundle it out, he wondered if it would be
possible. Ten miles was a long way, and after
the storm the sea might be rough. At least
there was a strong breeze. Alex had felt it
when he was on the jetty—and it was also

429/539
blowing offshore. Most kite boarders avoid
an offshore wind; it’s lumpy and difficult,
and there’s always a danger it will blow you
out to sea. But that was exactly what Alex
wanted. He needed to get away. Fast.

He reached for the board and at that mo-
ment the door swung open behind him. Alex
was already spinning round, his fists raised,
preparing for a karate strike, when Paul
stepped inside.

“Alex?” The other boy had obviously only
just got up. He was wearing shorts and noth-
ing else. He stared at Alex, shocked. “What
are you…” He couldn’t find the words. “I
thought you’d gone,” he said.

“I’m afraid not.” Alex wasn’t sure how much
Paul knew, and he didn’t know what to say.
He was aware that the whole situation had
changed. Where did he go from here?

430/539
“What’s happened to you?” Paul asked.
“What are you doing here? And why are you
dressed like that?”

“I’m sorry,” Alex said. “I can’t tell you.” He
desperately wished Paul hadn’t found him.
“How did you know I was here?”

“I couldn’t sleep. I went to the window to get
some air—and there you were, on the beach.”

“Do you have a key to the boat? Do you know
where it is?”

“No.” All of a sudden Paul was angry. “Dad
told me that you’d been sent here to spy on
him. I said that couldn’t be true, but he was
sure of it. He said he had enemies in New
York and they’d paid you to come here, to
make trouble.”

“Did he tell you what he did to me?” Alex cut
in. He was getting angry himself. Here was
Paul, accusing him. But he knew nothing.

431/539
“He said he put you on the plane out of
here.” Paul looked at Alex uncertainly. “Is it
true, Alex?” he demanded. “Are you spying
on us?”

“I haven’t got time to talk about this now.”
He took a step and Paul’s arm shot out, his
hand reaching for a button built into a panel
on the wall. Alex hadn’t noticed it before.

“This is an alarm,” Paul told him. “If I press
it, there’ll be a dozen guards here in less than
a minute. I want you to tell me the truth.
What are you doing here? What’s been
happening?”

“If you press that button, I’ll be killed.”

“You’re lying…”

“Your father will kill me, Paul. He’s already
tried once.”

“No!” Paul was staring at Alex and now there
was something else in his face. It wasn’t just
disbelief. It was anger. And Alex understood.

432/539
There was nothing he could say. He could tell
Paul everything he knew about Nikolei Vladi-
mir Drevin, and it would make no difference.

Drevin had lied to him. He had taunted him
and shown him little affection. But he was
still Paul’s father. It was as simple as that.
And no matter what
the feelings were
between them, Paul would defend him.

Because he was Drevin’s son.

Alex knew that he had only seconds before
Paul sounded the alarm. He raised his hands,
palms upward, as if to prove that he meant
no harm. “OK, Paul,” he said. “I’ll tell you
everything.”

“Don’t come any closer…” Paul’s hand
hovered centimetres from the alarm.

Alex risked another step forward. “It’s not
what you think. Your dad was wrong about
me. So are you.

Your mother asked me to come here.”

433/539

“What?”

Alex had mentioned Paul’s mother because
he knew the effect it would have. Paul froze,
uncertain, and in that split second, Alex
lashed out, driving his elbow into the other
boy’s temple. Paul crumpled instantly; Alex
caught him and lowered him to the ground.
He had been learning karate since he was six
years old but this was the first time he had
struck anyone the same age as himself. He
felt ashamed. All Paul had ever wanted was a
friend, someone he could look up to—and it
had come to this. But what else could he do?
He had to leave the island. He had to prevent
a whole city from being destroyed.

He forced himself to ignore the unconscious
boy, picked up the kite and the rest of the
equipment and dragged it down to the beach.
The sun was already well above the horizon.
Alex pumped up the kite and laid it out along
the shore, all the while looking out for any
approaching guards. How long would he

434/539
have before Paul came round? Fifteen
minutes, perhaps twenty. No matter which
way he looked at it, he was running out of
time.

And there was still the problem of launching
the kite. With two people it had been easy.
On his own it would take more time. Quickly
Alex stripped off the grey uniform; under-
neath he was wearing swimming trunks. He
picked up the harness and clipped it on. It
was a Mystic Darkrider, made out of black
rubber with a foam shell. Paul had chosen all
the equipment himself and he’d made sure
he’d got the best. If only he could have been
here to help Alex with it.

How to do it?

Alex checked the wind direction, then laid
the kite out on the ground with the lines
stretching towards the water’s edge. He
scooped up several handfuls of sand and

435/539
dumped them on the upwind tip of the kite.
The other tip he left free.

He picked up the board and control bar and
began to walk backwards into the sea. The
water, surprisingly cold, lapped around his
ankles. The kite, shaped like a crescent
moon, was lying flat behind him. It was
already flapping like a wounded animal, try-
ing to rise up into the air. Only the sand was
holding it down.

Alex laid the board down beside him and
pulled one of the lines attached to the down-
wind tip, gently nudging it into the breeze.
Almost at once it began to rise, and the kite
inflated, the wind rushing through the vents.
Alex stepped deeper into the water. The kite
was pulling more strongly, the fabric jerking
and throwing off the sand. And then, sud-
denly, it rose. Alex steered it carefully into
the air and neutralized it above his head. It
had taken him several minutes to get to this
point and he was painfully aware of the time

436/539
ticking away. But he had done it. He was
ready to go.

He hooked the control bar to his harness and
then stepped onto the board. Carefully he
lowered the kite into the wind. Almost at
once he felt the pull, fierce and irresistible.
He leant back, letting it take him. He was
powered up. A moment later, he was away.

The kite was flying in front of him, about fif-
teen metres
sea. Despite
everything, Alex experienced the same exhil-
aration that he had felt with Paul when the
two of them were fooling around.

above

the

He seemed to be going incredibly fast.

The wind was rushing over him, the spray al-
most blinding him as it swept into his face.
The sun was already hot; he could feel it
beating down, warming his arms, chest and
shoulders. If he was out here too long, he
would burn. But Alex knew that was the least
of his problems. Somehow he had to cover

437/539
the ten miles. And Drevin would be coming
after him very soon.

He was heading past Little Point; once round
it he would find himself in less friendly wa-
ters. He eased the control bar, raising it
slightly to slow himself down, then pulled on
the two front lines, tilting it to the left.

The moment he rounded the headland, he
felt the difference. The waves were suddenly
much larger. The view ahead was obstructed
by solid blue walls that rose up with alarm-
ing speed and threatened to come crashing
down on him. Somehow he managed to
climb them, one after another. But his arms,
taking most of
the strain, were already
aching. And when he did catch a brief
glimpse of the horizon, there was nothing on
it, not even so much as a speck. Barbados
was still a long way away.

Ten minutes passed. Alex was a good surfer
but the experience was very different with a

438/539
kite. All his concentration was fixed on the
soaring black and white Flexifoil wing. If he
allowed it to stray outside the wind envelope,
he knew it would fall into the sea. He would
come to an immediate halt and it would be
almost impossible to launch the kite again.
He had to stay upright. He was exhausted
from lack of sleep.

Ignore it. Stay focused. Gritting his teeth, he
willed himself on.

The wind was coming at him sideways now,
gusting at around thirty miles an hour. The
spray was lashing into him. He wondered if
he was going in the right direction and risked
a glance behind him. Flamingo Bay was
already small and distant. He figured that so
long as he kept it over his left shoulder, he
must be heading more or less straight.

He looked back again, and felt a sickening
lurch in his stomach. He had to fight to keep
his balance. He must have travelled at least

439/539
five miles, he was sure of it. But there was
still no sign of Barbados and the worst had
happened.

He was being pursued.

Paul must have come round and raised the
alarm. Either that or someone had spotted
the kite and guessed what had happened.
The Princess V55 was knifing through the
water, its sleek form powering towards him.
It was incredibly fast, moving at almost
thirty-nine knots. Forty-five miles an hour. It
wouldn’t take very long to catch up with him.
And there was more to come. There were two
smaller boats with it. As Alex risked another
glance behind him he saw them peel away
from it, leaping ahead and rapidly closing the
distance between the Princess and him.

They were brand-new Bella 620 DC
speedboats, Finnish-made and shipped out
to the Caribbean.

440/539
They were twenty feet long, squat and mean-
looking with silver pulpit rails shaped like
the nostrils of an angry bull. Each one was
equipped with a single 150 horsepower Mer-
cury Optimax Saltwater outboard and Alex
knew that they had to be going almost twice
as fast as him. They were less than a minute
away.

There was nothing he could do. His hands
were clamped tight round the control bar
and he lowered the kite as much as he dared,
desperately trying to pick up speed. Now he
could hear the motors above the wind. More
walls of water rose up in front of him. His
legs trembled with the strain as he fought his
way over the waves. The boats flew along,
carving through them.

There were two men in each of them, one
steering, the other holding a machine gun.
They hadn’t come to capture him and take
him back. They were here to kill him. Alex
heard the first rattle of machine-gun fire,

441/539
almost lost in the roar of the waves. He
slammed the bar into his chest, steering the
kite up. At the same time, he transferred his
weight to the flat of the board, tensed him-
self and jumped. Now he was in the air, ten
metres above the water. The bullets passed
underneath him. The hang time seemed to
stretch on for ever. He was flying, his whole
body tilted backwards, the soles of his feet
towards the sky. The men in the speedboats
had been taken by surprise. Thrown around
by the sea,
they were off balance, half
blinded by the spray, unable to aim at a tar-
get high above their heads. For a few
seconds, Alex was safe.

But he couldn’t defy gravity for ever. Alex
braced himself for the splash down, trying to
ignore the two boats, which were horribly
close. He landed between them, bending his
knees to absorb some of the impact, lowering
the kite to maintain speed. If he toppled
over, he would die. But while he remained

442/539
standing, the men couldn’t fire. There was
too much risk that they would hit each other
in the crossfire.

And then Alex saw Barbados. It was there,
ahead of him, no bigger than a one-penny
piece. If he could survive just a few more
minutes, he would be all right.

He was being pulled along between the two
boats, all three of them doing the same
speed. He was so close to the men that but
for the scream of the engines and the boom-
ing of the waves he would have been able to
call out to them. He could sense his strength
beginning to fail him. His arms were aching.
All his muscles were straining. He could
barely feel the board beneath his feet.

And then the boat on his left edged ahead, al-
lowing the one on his right a clear line of fire.
Alex saw the guard raise his machine gun,
preparing to shoot. He was a sitting duck
skimming
totally

the water,

across

443/539
unprotected, just a couple of metres away
from the man who was about to mow him
down.

Alex did the only thing he could. Once again
he took to the air, but this time he didn’t
jump as high. The man with the gun might
think he’d miscalculated. But Alex knew ex-
actly what he was doing. Everything de-
pended on surprise.

As he took off, he let go of the bar with one
hand and reached down. There was a handle
in the middle of the board and he grabbed
hold of it. He was hanging in the air and the
board fell away, coming free of his feet.
Holding it tightly, Alex swung it beneath him
like a club. The board slammed into the
man’s head.

Alex knew that it was made of Kevlar, the
same material that the SAS used for their
body armour. For the man with the machine
gun, it was like being hit with a slab of metal.

444/539
He crumpled. But his finger was still on the
trigger. Alex saw the muzzle flash. Bullets
tore into the deck of the boat, shattered the
windscreen and hit the driver. He jerked and
fell forward. The boat went out of control.

Alex slid the board back under him, and
managed to get his feet into the straps a
second before he hit the water.

The Bella 620 DC had an unconscious pas-
senger and a dead driver slumped over the
wheel. It performed a fantastic S-bend, veer-
ing first to the right, then back to the left,
crossed the open expanse of water and
smashed at full speed into the other boat.
Alex watched as the two craft collided. There
was an explosion of splintering metal and
fibreglass, and the second boat was flipped
into the air. For a brief moment, it seemed to
hang there, and Alex glimpsed the face of the
terrified driver, upside down, as he gazed at
his own death. Then it pancaked down and
there was a huge splash.

445/539
It was over. Alex allowed the kite to drag him
out of danger. He was suddenly alone.

But not for long. The Princess had been
hanging back, waiting for the two speedboats
to finish their work.

Now it surged forward. As well as the driver,
it was carrying three guards armed with ma-
chine guns. The men had seen what had
happened; they would be more careful. All
they had to do was move into range and they
would be able to cut him down.

Alex didn’t have the strength for another
jump. Barbados was looming up in front of
him but, as if taunting him, the wind had
died down. He could feel himself
losing
speed. He brought the kite as low as he dared
but it made no difference. There was nothing
more he could do.

He braced himself, waiting for the chatter of
the guns and the searing agony that would
follow.

446/539
There was another explosion. A blast of
smoke and burning petrol. Alex toppled side-
ways, deafened. He wondered for the briefest
of moments if he had been hit. Then he
plunged into the water as fragments of
broken, blackened fibreglass ricocheted all
around him like a swarm of bees. His hands
no longer had the strength to hang onto the
control bar. He was sucked beneath the sur-
face,
twisting round and round, broken,
finished.

He surfaced.

The Princess was on fire. There was no sign
of the driver, no sign of the three armed
men. The boat swerved, trailing black smoke,
and began to slow down.

Alex was choking. He coughed up water and
twisted round. Another boat had appeared,
some sort of naval vessel. There was a man
standing in the bow, holding a bazooka. Alex
recognized the blond hair and chiselled

447/539
features of Ed Shulsky, the CIA agent he had
met in New York.

“Alex!” Shulsky called out. “You want a
ride?”

Alex was too weak to respond. His shoulders
and face had been burnt by the sun but he
was shivering. The boat drew up alongside
him and he was pulled on board. There were
a dozen men on the deck, all young and
tough-looking. Someone produced a large
towel and wrapped it around him.

“We were watching the island,” Shulsky told
him. “We saw you coming, although we
didn’t know it was you at first. To be honest,
we couldn’t believe what we were seeing. I
still don’t believe it! So we came over to
help…”

It was all
the explanation Alex needed.
“Drevin has Tamara Knight,” he said. “She’s
a prisoner. And there’s something you need
to know—”

448/539

Just then, it happened.

A blinding light so bright that it seemed to
blot out the sun, sucking the blue out of the
sea and the sky, turning the whole world
white. A noise like an explosion, only ten
times louder and more sustained. A shock
wave that shivered across the water, sending
new waves punching into the side of the
boat. The very air seemed to vibrate and Alex
felt a bolt of pain in both ears.

He turned in time to see a silver pencil blast-
ing into the sky, flame scorching out of its
base, rising as if on a cushion of smoke. It
was ten miles away, tiny, but even so Alex
could sense its awesome power and majesty.

He watched as it disappeared, effortlessly
penetrating the upper atmosphere.

He was
launched.

too late. Gabriel 7 had been

449/539
The bomb that was going to bring Ark Angel
crashing down onto Washington was on its
way.

THE RED BUTTON

It sometimes seemed to Alex that the whole
universe was against him. Getting away from
Flamingo Bay had almost killed him. It had
been an exhausting struggle against time, the
elements and Drevin’s firepower.

And now he was going back.

It was the CIA agent, Ed Shulsky, who had
made it happen.

“Alex, you know the place. I need you to tell
me where they’re holding Tamara. You can
give me the layout of the island. Anyway, we
don’t have much time. You saw for yourself.
The rocket is on its way, and if what you’ve
told me is true…”

“It is.” Alex felt a spurt of annoyance. Why
should the American doubt, even for a mo-
ment, what he had said? Was it perhaps be-
cause he was only fourteen?

451/539
Shulsky noticed his reaction. “I’m sorry. That
was out of line. But this plan of his, Ark
Angel …

Washington…” He shook his head. “It’s bey-
ond anything we could have imagined. And
that’s why we have to take him out. Right
now. We don’t have time to drop you off.”

“But you’re too late,” Alex argued. “Gabriel 7
has gone. What are you going to do? Shoot it
down?”

Shulsky smiled. “There’s no need for that. All
we have to do is find the red button.” Alex
looked puzzled.

“The self-destruct! If something went wrong
with the launch, Drevin would have had to
have a fallback.

We’ll be able to blow it up before it gets any-
where near Ark Angel.”

Alex was standing at the bow of the armour-
plated Mark V Special Operations Craft, the

452/539
sleek, streamlined vessel used primarily to
carry SEAL combat swimmers into opera-
tions. It was equipped with 7.62mm Gatling
guns and Stinger missiles and the dozen men
had been drafted in from the Special Opera-
tions Force, fully armed and ready to invade
the island.

He was wearing combat clothes that were a
little too big for him; someone had found a
spare set on board.

Now he watched as the island drew closer,
the familiar landmarks coming into focus.
The strange thing was, deep inside, he knew
that he would have wanted to come back,
even if Shulsky hadn’t made any argument
pointless. Tamara Knight was waiting for
him. And then there was Paul Drevin. Alex
wanted a chance to explain himself. He still
felt bad about what he’d done.

“Two minutes!” Shulsky called out.

453/539
The men began to check their weapons and
body armour. They were heading for the old
wooden jetty near the house. Shulsky inten-
ded to approach the control centre through
the rainforest. It would mean a forced march
along the length of the island and would take
longer, but after Alex had described the
launch area, Shulsky had decided a frontal
attack would be too risky. There was no shel-
ter; they would be cut down the moment
they left the boat.

Shulsky rejoined Alex at the bow. “I want you
to stay on board until the fighting’s over,” he
announced.

“What do you mean?” Alex protested. “I
thought you wanted me to help.”

“You have helped. Thanks to you, we know
where we’re going and what we’re going to
do. But this is going to be a war, Alex. And I
can’t afford to have my men worrying about
you. Stay on the boat and stay out of sight.”

454/539
It was too late to argue. They had reached
the jetty, and Alex had to admit that Shulsky
was right about one thing. This side of the is-
land was deserted. If Drevin had seen them
coming, he had concentrated his forces
around the launch site; nobody so much as
blinked as the boat drew up at the jetty. Alex
watched the thirteen Americans disembark.
They stomped across the beach and disap-
peared through the palm trees.

He still wished he had gone with them. He
had told them where to find Tamara but he
would have liked to be the one to release her
himself.

He was left behind. Forgotten. He could see
Drevin’s house in the distance, the sunlight
sparkling off the windows. Someone had
dumped some waterskis and two tow ropes
on the sand, but otherwise the beach was
empty. The Cessna 195 was bobbing in the
shallows but there was no sign of the pilot.

455/539

The Cessna.

It hadn’t been there when Alex had set off
with the kite. He felt a sense of misgiving. If
Drevin knew that the Americans were on
their way, his first thought would be to save
his own skin. Shulsky and his men had
rushed off without stopping to think. They
should have disabled the seaplane first.

Alex looked around, searching for a weapon
or anything he could use to do the job him-
self. But the Americans had taken everything
and he had no doubt that the Gatling guns
would be locked in their mounting positions.
What else? Nothing. Just the two canoes sit-
ting peacefully beside the jetty, the waterski-
ing equipment, and a pelican watching him
from a distant wooden post.

The silence was broken by a rattle of
machine-gun fire and the pelican took off in
fright. It had begun. Alex listened as the
shooting intensified. There was an explosion

456/539
and a column of flame rose up briefly above
the trees. A movement caught his eye. A
buggy was racing along the track. Alex
glimpsed it between the palm trees. Then it
broke out into the open and he froze. The
buggy was being driven by Nikolei Drevin.

He was alone.

Alex assumed Drevin would make for the
seaplane, but he continued to the house.
Maybe there was a safe there. Maybe he
needed to pick up a few last things. Or per-
haps he’d come back for Paul. Alex tried to
work out what to do. He wished more than
ever
that Shulsky had taken him with
him—or at least left one of his men behind.

Five minutes later, he approached the house.

Alex knew he was making a mistake, but he
had to see for himself what Drevin was do-
ing. Anyway, it was against his nature to sit
there, skulking away in an American boat
while the fighting continued all around him.

457/539
He could smell burning. Black smoke was
drifting across the forest. There was more
gunfire. Alex hurried across the hot sand,
knowing that he had arrived at the endgame.
The last moves were about to be played.

He reached the side of the building and
pressed himself against the wall, keeping out
of sight. The terrace where he had eaten
breakfast with Drevin and Paul was directly
above him. A wooden staircase curved up
from the beach and Alex was just considering
whether he could risk climbing it to look in
through the window, when Drevin appeared
round the side of the house, an attaché case
in one hand, an automatic pistol in the other.

He saw Alex and stopped. “Alex Rider!” he
exclaimed. His eyes were curiously empty. In
the last few hours he seemed to have shrunk.
“Why did you come back?”

Alex shrugged. “I forgot to say thanks for
having me.”

458/539
“I am glad to see you one last time. I wonder
what it was that brought you and me togeth-
er. Was it fate?

Was it destiny?”

“I think it was Alan Blunt.”

“MI6? Well, they’ve failed. Gabriel 7 will
reach Ark Angel; it can’t be stopped. The
bomb will explode and Washington will be
destroyed, along with all
the evidence
against me.”

“They don’t need any evidence against you
now,” Alex said. “They all know you’re mad.”

“Yes. It will be necessary for me to disappear.
But it will be easy. A man with my wealth,
with my contacts…”

“The world’s too small for someone like you
to hide.”

“We’ll see.” Drevin raised the gun. “But one
thing is certain. We won’t meet again.”

459/539

He fired.

Alex had been ready for it. He dived down
onto the sand. He felt the first hail of bullets
pass centimetres over his head—and knew
there was no way he could avoid the second.

Drevin groaned.

It was the most terrible sound Alex had ever
heard, an animal cry that seemed to come
from the very depths of the man’s soul. He
looked up, brushing sand out of his eyes. He
saw Drevin standing there, quite limp, his
eyes staring. Then he looked behind him.

Paul Drevin had come out of the house. He
must have heard them talking, and walked
round the side of the building just as Drevin
had fired. Alex had dived out of the way but
Paul hadn’t been so lucky. He had taken the
full impact of the bullets, and he was lying on
his back, arms and legs spread wide, blood
soaking into the sand.

460/539
“You…!” Drevin screamed the single word.
Then he began to babble. Not in English but
Russian. His face was white, twisted in pain
and hatred. Tears were seeping out of the
corners of his eyes. He pointed the gun at
Alex once more. But this time Alex was ready
for him.

Before Drevin could pull the trigger, Alex
began to roll, spinning over and over, pro-
pelling himself towards the house. Bullets
kicked up the sand, then slammed into the
nearest wall. But Drevin had been caught by
surprise. Still rolling, Alex disappeared into
the crawl space underneath the house. It was
cold and damp here. There might be spiders
or scorpions nestling in the foundations. But
he was in the dark, out of the range of the
bullets. For a moment, he was safe.

Drevin hardly seemed to notice. He fired at
the house until the gun clicked uselessly in
his hands. It took him a while to realize that
he had run out of bullets. Then, with a curse,

461/539
he threw the gun down and staggered over to
his son. Paul wasn’t moving. In the distance,
he heard shouting. A buggy was approaching
through the rainforest. Drevin turned and
ran across the beach towards the waiting
plane.

Lying on his stomach, Alex looked out
through the gap between the bottom of the
house and the sand. He saw Drevin reach the
water’s edge and knew that he wasn’t coming
back. Slowly, dreading what he was going to
find, he crawled back out into the open and
went over to Paul.

There was a lot of blood. Alex was certain
that the boy was dead, and he was over-
whelmed by a feeling of sadness and guilt.
But then, to his surprise, Paul opened his
eyes. Alex knelt down beside him. Now that
he was looking closely he could see that, be-
neath the blood, the damage might not be as
bad as he had feared.

462/539
Paul had been shot in the shoulder and the
arm but the rest of the bullets must have
passed over his head.

“Alex…” he rasped.

“Don’t move,” Alex said. “I’m really sorry,
Paul. This is all my fault. I should never have
come here.”

“No. I was wrong…” Paul tried to speak but
the effort was too much.

Alex heard the sound of the Cessna’s engine
and turned round in time to see the plane
moving away from the jetty. Drevin was pi-
loting it. Alex could make out the crazed, dis-
torted face behind the controls. At the same
time, a buggy screeched to a halt in front of
the house and Ed Shulsky and two men
jumped out. Alex was relieved to see that
Tamara was with them, still pale but looking
stronger than when he had last seen her.

463/539
“Alex!” she called out, then stopped, seeing
Paul.

Shulsky signalled, and the two men sprinted
over to the wounded boy, pulling out medical
packs as they ran. “What happened here?” he
asked.

“Drevin,” Alex said. “He hit Paul instead of
me.”

“How bad is it?” Shulsky addressed one of
the two men.

“I think he’s going to be OK,” the man
replied, and Alex felt a surge of relief. “He’s
lost blood, and we’re going to have to heli-
copter him out as soon as possible. But he’ll
live.”

Shulsky turned to Alex. “We’ve taken control
of the island,” he told him. “Drevin’s men
didn’t put up much of a fight. But we lost
Drevin. Where is he?”

464/539
Alex pointed. The Cessna 195 had reached
full speed and was rising smoothly out of the
water. Bizarrely, impossibly, two canoes had
risen up behind it, as if following it out of the
sea and into the sky.

“What the—” Shulsky began.

It was the only thing Alex had been able to
do in the time he’d had. Using the tow ropes
from the waterskiing equipment, he’d tied
the canoes to the seaplane’s floats. He had
thought about securing the Cessna to the
jetty, but Drevin would have spotted that.
Part of him had hoped that
the plane
wouldn’t be able to take off, but he was dis-
appointed. It was already high up, a bizarre
sight with the two canoes dangling under-
neath it. Alex wondered if Drevin had even
noticed. Well, whatever happened, it would
make the plane easier to spot, and when it
landed, with a bit of luck, the canoes might
cause it to overturn.

465/539

But then Drevin made his last mistake.

Alex would never know what was in the Rus-
sian’s mind. Did he think his son was dead?
Did he think Alex was to blame? It seemed
he had decided to take revenge. The plane
swung round and suddenly it was heading
back towards them. With no warning, before
there was even any sound, the sand leapt up
all around them and Alex realized that Drev-
in was firing at them, using a machine gun
mounted somewhere on the plane. The det-
onations came a moment later. Everyone
dived for cover, the two male agents crouch-
ing over the injured boy, protecting him with
their own bodies. Bullets smashed into the
side of the house; wood splintered and one of
the great glass windows frosted and cascaded
down. The plane roared overhead and con-
tinued towards the rainforest. The canoes
bumped and twisted just behind.

Drevin had missed them on the first pass but
Alex knew they wouldn’t be so lucky on the

466/539
second. He looked at Shulsky, wondering
what the CIA agent was planning to do. They
might be able to make it into the house. But
what about Paul? Moving him too quickly
would kill him.

The plane began to turn. The canoes dipped
down. Drevin was directly over the forest. He
hadn’t seen the canoes, so had no idea how
low they were. There were two trees close to
one another. As Alex watched—

with a shiver of horror—the canoes collided
with the trunks and became stuck between
them, caught sideways on.

The plane came to an abrupt halt. It was as if
it had anchored itself in mid-air. There was
the sound of breaking wood. The canoes had
smashed—but so had the floats. In fact, the
entire undercarriage of the plane had been
torn away, and Drevin was left sitting on thin
air, surrounded by half a plane. One moment
he had been flying forward. The next he

467/539
simply rotated ninety degrees and swooped
vertically down towards the ground. There
was a scream from what was left of the en-
gine; the Cessna’s propeller turned uselessly.
Alex saw the plane disappear into the forest.
There was a crash and then, seconds later, a
ball of flame. It leapt up into the sky almost
as if it was trying to escape from the devasta-
tion below. Two more explosions. Then
silence.

For what seemed like an eternity, Alex stared
towards the crash site. A fire still raged
among the trees and he wondered if it would
spread across the island. But even as he
watched, the flames started to flicker and die
down, to be replaced by a plume of smoke
that rose up in the shape of a final exclama-
tion mark. Drevin was dead. There could be
no doubt about that.

Alex felt an immense weariness. It seemed to
him that everything that had happened, from
the moment he had met Nikolei Drevin at

468/539
the Waterfront Hotel in London, had some-
how been leading to this moment. He
thought back to the luxury of Neverglade, the
go-kart race, the football match that had
ended in murder,
to America.
Drevin had been a monster and he’d de-
served to die. Washington was no longer in
any danger. Gabriel 7 and the bomb it was
carrying would be blown up long before it
reached Ark Angel.

the flight

But Alex couldn’t feel any sense of victory.
He looked back at Paul Drevin. The two
agents were busy working on him, one of
them wrapping pressure bandages around
his wounds while the other fed an IV

needle into his arm. Paul’s eyes were closed.
Mercifully he had slipped into unconscious-
ness and so hadn’t seen what had just
happened.

Alex turned back and watched the smoke
spread through the air, and suddenly he

469/539
wanted to be far away from Flamingo Bay.
He wanted to be with Jack. The two of them
would take a plane home.

It was finally over.

He realized that Ed Shulsky and Tamara
were staring at him.

“What is it?” he asked.

The two CIA agents exchanged a look. Then
Shulsky spoke. “I wish you hadn’t done that,”
he said. “We wanted to have a word with Mr
Drevin.”

Alex shrugged. “I don’t think he was plan-
ning to hang around for a chat.”

“You may be right,” Shulsky agreed. “But we
still needed to speak to him.” He paused.
“You remember that red button I was telling
you about?”

Alex nodded. “Yes.”

470/539
“Well, it seems I was wrong. There isn’t one.
We can’t blow up Gabriel 7. There’s nothing
we can do to stop it.”

“What?” Alex’s head spun. “But you just said
that you’re in control of the island. There
must be something you can do.”

Tamara shook her head. “After the launch,
Drevin locked down all the computer sys-
tems,” she explained.

“He was the only one with the codes. It’s not
your fault, Alex. By the time we’d caught up
with him it probably would’ve been too late.
But right now Gabriel 7 is on its way and we
can’t communicate with it.

We can’t bring it back and we can’t divert it.
It’s going to dock with Ark Angel in less than
three hours from now. The bomb is on a
timer. It’s all going to happen exactly as
Drevin planned.”

“So what are you going to do?” Alex asked.

471/539
Tamara didn’t have the heart to say it. She
glanced at Shulsky.

“Alex,” he said. “I’m afraid we need your
help.”

ARK ANGEL

"No,” Alex said. “No way. Forget it. The an-
swer is no!”

“Let’s go over
suggested.

this again,” Ed Shulsky

They were sitting in the control centre on the
western stretch of Flamingo Bay. Alex had
been driven there from Drevin’s house and it
was clear that Shulsky’s men were in com-
mand. Very little damage had been done.
The guardhouse and the gate had been
blown up—that was the explosion Alex had
heard—but it seemed that Drevin’s men had
surrendered quickly. None of
them had
known what Drevin was really planning.
They had been paid to help launch a rocket
into space: Drevin had never told them what
the rocket actually contained.

473/539
At least Paul Drevin was out of it. He had
been flown to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital
in Bridgetown, on Barbados. Alex was re-
lieved to hear that he was going to be all
right. He had already been given blood and
the doctors were waiting for his condition to
stabilize before he was flown to America. His
mother was apparently on her way to see
him. Alex wondered if the two of them would
ever meet again. Somehow he doubted it.

Now there were just four people in the room,
surrounded by computers, video screens and
the blinking lights of the electronic display
board. A series of blueprints had been spread
out on the large conference table. They
showed the overall design of Ark Angel with
the different modules—a dozen of them—

extending in every direction, up and down. It
was like an enormously complicated toy.

Alex was slumped in a chair, his face grim,
still dressed in the borrowed combat clothes.

474/539
Ed Shulsky and Tamara Knight were sitting
opposite him. Tamara looked exhausted,
grey with pain and fatigue. She’d accepted a
shot of morphine but nothing else. She
wasn’t leaving Alex until a decision had been
made.

The fourth person in the room was Professor
Sing Joo-Chan, the man in charge of the
Gabriel 7 launch. The flight director seemed
a completely different person. He had lost
his calm and self-possession and looked as if
he was on the verge of a heart attack. His
face was pale and he was sweating profusely,
dabbing at his forehead with a large white
handkerchief. Like everyone else, he claimed
to know nothing about the bomb, nothing
about Drevin’s real plans. He had promised
to cooperate, to do anything the CIA re-
quired, and for the time being Shulsky was
giving him the benefit of the doubt. But Alex
wasn’t so sure. The professor had been re-
cruited by Drevin; he had been in charge of

475/539
the operation from the very start. Alex was
certain he knew more than he was letting on.

“This is the situation,” Shulsky said. “Gabriel
7 will dock with Ark Angel at half past two
this afternoon.

It’s carrying a bomb which will go off exactly
two hours after that.” He glanced at Alex.
“Drevin told you that himself.”

Alex nodded. “That’s right. Half past four.
That’s what he said.”

“Now, as I understand it, there are three
docking ports on Ark Angel.” Shulsky poin-
ted to the diagram.

“Two of them are positioned at the very
centre … here. But that’s not where Gabriel 7
is heading, because if the bomb blew up
there it would simply rip the whole space sta-
tion apart.” He reached out and tapped a sec-
tion on the other side, at the end of a long

476/539
corridor. “Gabriel 7 will dock here,” he ex-
plained. “Right on the edge.”

“Yes—the very edge!” Sing agreed. Alex no-
ticed that the professor’s eyes were wide and
unfocused. He was taking care not to look at
anyone directly. “That’s how it was decided.
That’s what Mr Drevin insisted.”

“The bomb must be inside the observation
module,” Shulsky said. “And I guess it’ll be in
exactly the right position. Most of the force
from the explosion will go outwards. It’ll
have the effect of a push in the wrong direc-
tion, propelling the entire space station back
to earth.” He took a deep breath and for a
moment something like panic flashed in his
eyes. “The hell of it is, there’s nothing we can
do to stop it. We can’t blow up Gabriel 7. And
according to Professor Sing here, we can’t ac-
cess the computers to reprogram it.”

477/539
“You can’t!” The white handkerchief was out
again. “Only Mr Drevin had the codes. Only
Mr Drevin—”

“I’ve checked it, Alex,” Tamara said. “It’s
true. The entire system has been shut down.
It would take us days—possibly
even
weeks—to hack into it.”

“I know it sounds crazy, but that leaves us
with just one option,” Shulsky went on. “We
have to send somebody up to Ark Angel. Be-
lieve me, Alex, it’s the only way. Someone
has to find the bomb and neutralize it—by
which I mean switch it off. And if that isn’t
possible, then they have to move it. They
have to carry it into the middle of the space
station and leave it there. That way, the force
of the explosion will have a completely dif-
ferent effect. It’ll destroy Ark Angel. What
pieces are left will scatter and burn up in the
outer atmosphere.”

478/539
“You will destroy Ark Angel!” Professor Sing
whispered the words as if he couldn’t believe
what he had just heard.

“I don’t give a damn about Ark Angel, Pro-
fessor!” Shulsky almost shouted the words.
“My only concern is Washington.”

“Move the bomb or switch it off—what differ-
ence does it make?” Alex asked. “How is any-
one going to get there?”

“That’s the whole point,” Shulsky said. “The
Soyuz-Fregat is ready for launching. It was
to carry Arthur into space.” He
all set
paused.
“But
there’s no reason why it
shouldn’t carry you.”

“Me? You really want to send me into outer
space?”

“Yes.”

“I’m not an orang-utan.”

“I know. I know. But you have to under-
stand! What we’re talking about here, it’s not

479/539
as complicated as you think. I mean, a rocket
is a pretty simple piece of machinery. It’s just
like a tank. It’s not as if you have to control it
or anything—that’s all done from here.”
Shulsky gestured around the room. “We still
have access to the flight programs for the
Soyuz-Fregat.
computers marked
COMMAND tell the rocket what to do.

The

The docking, the re-entry … everything. And
those marked TELEMETRY allow us to mon-
itor the health and well-being of the passen-
ger. You.”

“Not me.”

“There is no one else,” Shulsky said, and Alex
could hear the desperation in his voice.
“That’s the whole point, Alex. We’re adults.
We’re all too big!” He turned to Professor
Sing. “Tell him!”

Sing nodded. “It’s true. We planned to put
Arthur—the ape—into space. I made all the
calculations personally. The launch,
the

480/539
approach, the docking—all of it. But the first
differential is the weight. The weight of the
passenger. If the weight changes, then all the
calculations have to change and that will take
days.”

“What makes you think I weigh the same?”

The professor spread his hands. “You weigh
almost the same, and we can work within a
margin. It’s possible. But it’s not just the
weight. It’s the size.”

“The capsule has been modified and none of
us would fit
inside,” Shulsky explained.
“There isn’t enough room. You’re the only
one who can go, Alex. Heaven knows, I
wouldn’t ask you otherwise. But there is no
other way. It has to be you.”

Alex’s head was swimming. He hadn’t slept
for almost thirty hours; he wondered if this
whole conversation wasn’t some sort of hal-
lucination. “But how would I even find the

481/539
bomb?” he asked. “And if I did find it, how
would I know where to put it?”

“You put it here.” Again Shulsky pointed at
one of the modules in the diagram. “This is
the sleeping area.

You’ll pass through it on your way to Gabriel
7. It’s the very heart of Ark Angel. This is
where the bomb has to be when it blows up.
I’ve gone over it with the professor and he
agrees. If it happens here, Washington will
be safe.”

“I’m just meant to carry it from one place to
another?”

“It’ll weigh nothing at all,” Sing reminded
him. “You see—it’s zero gravity!”

Alex felt weak. He wanted to argue but he
knew that nobody was listening. They had all
made up their minds.

Tamara reached out and took his hand.
“Alex, I’d go if I could,” she said. “I’m just

482/539
about small enough and I guess I weigh the
same as you. But I don’t think I’d make it.
Not with this bullet wound…”

“I thought most kids would give their right
arm to go into outer space,” Shulsky added
unhelpfully.

“Haven’t you ever dreamt about becoming an
astronaut?”

“No,” Alex said. “I always wanted to be a
train driver.”

“Statistically, the Soyuz has an excellent reli-
ability
record,” Tamara said. Alex re-
membered seeing her reading about space
travel on Drevin’s plane. “Hundreds of them
have gone up, and there have been only a
couple of hiccups.”

“How long will it take him to get there?”
Shulsky asked. As far as he was concerned,
Alex had already agreed to go.

483/539
“He’ll be launched along the plane of orbit,”
Professor Sing replied. “I can’t explain it all
to you now. But he’ll follow a trajectory that
exactly matches the inclination of Ark Angel.
Eight minutes to leave the earth’s atmo-
sphere. And he will dock in less than two
hours.”

“And the Soyuz-Fregat is ready?”

“Yes, sir. It’s ready now.”

That struck Alex as odd. He knew that the
second launch had been brought
for-
ward—but why had Drevin been preparing to
send the ape into space at all, just hours after
Gabriel 71 If his plan had worked, Ark Angel
would have been destroyed soon after the
second rocket arrived. Not for the first time,
Alex was aware that there was something
they didn’t know, something that everyone
had overlooked. But his thoughts were in
such confusion that he couldn’t work out
what it was.

484/539
Tamara was still holding his hand. “I know
it’s too much to ask,” she said. “I know you
don’t want to do it.

But, believe me, we wouldn’t ask you if there
was another way. And you’ll be safe. You’ll
make it back. I know you will.”

Suddenly everyone was silent. They were all
looking at him. Alex thought of the bomb
that was closing in on Ark Angel even now.
He thought of an explosion in outer space,
and the space station plunging towards
Washington. What had Drevin said? Four
hundred tonnes of it would survive. The
shock wave would destroy most of the city.

He thought of Jack Starbright, who was
somewhere in the middle of it all, visiting her
parents. And he knew that—just like Ar-
thur—he didn’t have any choice.

He nodded.

“Let’s get you suited up,” Ed Shulsky said.

485/539
After that, things moved very quickly. For
Alex, it was as if his world had disintegrated.
He was aware of bits and pieces but nothing
flowed. From the day he’d managed to get
himself caught up with MI6, he had often
found it hard to believe what was happening
to him. But this was something else again.
He seemed to have lost any sense of his own
identity. He was being swept along, out of
control,
to
something that filled him with more horror
than he had ever known.

edging

closer

closer

and

He was made to shower and dress in the
clothes that he had seen in the building
where he and Tamara had been imprisoned:
a white T-shirt and a blue tracksuit with the
Ark Angel logo stitched onto the sleeve.

Straps passed under his feet to hold the
trousers in place and there were six pockets
fastened with zips.

486/539
Suddenly he was surrounded by people he
had never met, all of them giving him advice,
preparing him for the terrible journey he was
about to make.

“You need to watch out for what we call the
breakaway phenomenon!” This from a man
in glasses with hair on his neck. Some sort of
psychologist. “It’s a feeling of euphoria. You
may like it so much up there that you won’t
want to come back.”

“I somehow doubt it,” Alex growled.

“We’ll be attaching EKG and biosensor
leads…”

“We’re going to give you an injection.” This
was a blonde-haired woman in a white coat.
She was holding a large hypodermic syringe.
“This is phenergan.
It’ll make you feel
better.”

“I feel fine.”

487/539
“You’ll almost certainly throw up when you
reach zero gravity. Most astronauts do.”

“Well, that’s something you never see on Star
Trek,” Alex muttered. “All right.” He rolled
up his sleeve.

“Not your arm, Alex. This goes in your
butt…”

He wondered why they hadn’t given him a
proper spacesuit, the sort of thing he’d seen
in old films of the moon landings. Professor
Sing explained.

“You don’t need it, Alex. Arthur, also,
wouldn’t have worn a spacesuit. You will be
inside a sealed capsule.

If there was a leak, it’s true that you would
need a spacesuit to protect you; but that’s
not going to happen, I promise you. Trust
me!”

Alex looked at the dark, blinking eyes behind
the spectacles. He knew that Sing was

488/539
ingratiating himself with the CIA, trying to
persuade them that he had been innocent
from the start. He was sure that Ed Shulsky
and Tamara would be watching him
throughout the entire launch. But he still
didn’t trust the professor. He was certain
there was something he wasn’t being told.

They gave him a headset and radio and wired
up his heart. It seemed impossible to Alex
that anyone could go into space like this,
without months of training. Tamara never
left his side,
trying to reassure him. A
fourteen-year-old was more adaptable than
an adult, she said. It was going to be a
bumpy ride, but he would come through it
comfortably because he was young. And
maybe Ed Shulsky was right. It would be
something to talk about. An experience he
would never forget.

And then he was in an electric buggy with
Tamara and Professor Sing, feeling strange
in his tracksuit, the material soft against his

489/539
skin. The rocket was ahead of him. He
looked at it but didn’t see it. It was as if the
connection had been severed between his
eyes and his brain. It was huge. The capsule
that would carry him into space was at the
very top of a silver tank as tall as an office
block,
suspended between two gantries.
Water was cascading down. Was it raining?
No, the water seemed to be coming from the
rocket.

He could hear the metal creaking as if it
needed a huge effort just to keep it in place.
There were clouds of white steam pouring
out—boil-off from the propellant. Alex saw a
deep trench running from the launch pad to-
wards the sea; he guessed it would carry the
flames from the solid rocket boosters. It
seemed impossible to him that this oversized
firework could actually rise up and carry him
into space.

In a lift, climbing higher and higher, still
with Tamara and the professor. He could see

490/539
the whole island, the sea stretching out an
amazing blue—and there was Barbados in
the distance. He was still being given advice.
So many words. But they didn’t actually pen-
etrate. They just flitted around him like
moths.

“…do everything
lightly, do everything
slowly. Don’t look directly at the sun. It’ll
blind you. Don’t even look at the clouds
around the earth. The sun reflects… Some
parts of Ark Angel will be hot—some will be
cold. There have been problems with the air-
conditioning… You’re going to feel strange.
Don’t worry if your face becomes puffy or
swells up. If your spine stretches. If you need
to go to the toilet. It’s the same for all astro-
nauts. Your body has to adapt
to zero
gravity…”

Who was talking? Were they really being ser-
ious? How could anybody expect him to do
this?

491/539
“You’ll need to access the observation mod-
ule of Gabriel 7 to get to the bomb. There’s a
hatch. You saw it on the diagram. You move
it to where Ed showed you and then you get
back into the Soyuz’s re-entry module. Don’t
waste any time. We’ll control everything
from here. You’ll feel it disengage…”

And then he was inside. They had certainly
been right about the amount of space. No
adult would have been able to fit into it. He
was lying on his back in a metal box that
could have been some kind of complicated
washing machine or water tank, his feet in
the air and his legs so tightly packed in that
his knees were touching his chin. There were
tiny windows on either side but they were
covered with some sort of material and he
couldn’t see out of them. There were no con-
trols. Of course not. Arthur the orang-utan
wouldn’t have needed controls. Professor
Sing was wiring him up. More monitors.
Now Alex was the one who was sweating.

492/539
They had told him he would sweat even more
when he was in outer space. Because of fluids
moving up, the body’s salt concentration be-
ing upset. Alex tried to put it out of his mind.
He didn’t even believe he would get there.
He didn’t
think he would survive the
journey.

leant over him. He was
Tamara Knight
strapped into his seat. His stomach was
clenched tight and he had difficulty drawing
the air into his lungs. He could move his
arms but nothing else. He was already
cramped and he hadn’t even started. Her
face was very close to his, filling his field of
vision.

“Good luck, Alex,” she whispered. Nothing
more. She waved a hand with fingers
crossed.

“You will hear the countdown,” Professor
Sing said. He was somewhere behind her.
“You have nothing to worry about, Alex. We

493/539
will guide you through it all. You’ll hear us
over the radio. We’ll look after you.”

They sealed the door. Alex felt the air inside
the capsule compress. He swallowed, trying
to clear his ears.

Apart from the sound of his own breathing,
everything was silent.

He was alone.

“T-minus thirty.” A crackle and a hiss of stat-
ic. The disembodied words had come
through the headset.

What did they mean? Thirty minutes until
blast-off. In thirty minutes’ time he would be
leaving the planet!

Alex tried to make himself more comfortable
but he couldn’t move.

“How are you doing, Alex?” It could have
been Ed Shulsky talking. Alex didn’t know.
The voices echoed inside his head and they
all sounded the same.

494/539

“T-minus twenty-five… T-minus twenty…”

He could only sit there, doubled up on him-
self, as
the countdown continued. The
strange thing was, it felt that time had gone
wrong too. A minute seemed like half an
hour. Yet half an hour was passing in only
minutes. He concentrated on his breathing.

“T-minus fifteen.”

Inside the control room Ed Shulsky was
watching Sing and his team of thirty as they
went
through the final preparations. He
walked over to the professor. He was wearing
a gun in a holster slung over his shirt.

“I don’t mean to worry you right now, Pro-
fessor,” he muttered. “But I want you to
know that if Alex Rider doesn’t come out of
this in one piece, I will personally rip your
guts out.”

“Of course!” Sing smiled nervously. “There’s
nothing to worry about. He’ll be fine!”

495/539
Tamara Knight sat motionless in front of the
observation window. Smoke was still rising
from the rainforest where the Cessna had
crashed. There were no birds to be seen. The
whole island seemed to be tensing itself for
the moment of launch.

“T-minus five.”

What had happened to T-minus ten? Alex
was feeling sick. The injection he’d been giv-
en hadn’t worked.

He could hear something in the distance.
Was it his imagination or was something
rumbling far below him?

“T-minus four… three … two … one.”

It began.

At first it was slow. Alex felt a shuddering,
vague to start with, but soon it was all-con-
suming. The entire capsule was shaking. He
wasn’t sure if he was moving or not. There
was a thud as the clamps holding down the

496/539
rocket were automatically released. The
shuddering got worse. Now the whole cap-
sule was vibrating so crazily that Alex could
feel the teeth being shaken in his skull. The
noise level had risen too; it was how a roar
that pounded at him with invisible fists and,
lying on his back with his legs bent in front
of him, there was nothing he could do. He
was defenceless.

And still it got worse.

He was definitely rising; he could feel the
force of the rocket’s thrust. He was being
pushed into the seat—

not pushed, crushed! His vision had almost
gone. His eyeballs were being mercilessly
squeezed. He tried to open his mouth to
scream but all his muscles had locked. He
felt as if his face was being pulled off.

And then there was a deafening explosion
and he was slammed forward in his seat, his
neck straining, the belts cutting into his

497/539
chest. Alex panicked, thinking it had all gone
wrong, that part of the rocket had blown up
and any moment now he would be either in-
cinerated or sent plummeting back to earth.
But then he remembered what he had been
told. The first stage of the rocket had burnt
out and been ejected. That was what he had
heard and felt. God help him, he really was
on the way. From nought to seventeen and a
half
in eight
minutes.

thousand miles an hour

Everything had been calculated. There
should have been an ape inside the orbital
module—instead there was a boy. To the
computers it made no difference. At exactly
the right second, the next stage ignited and
once again he was thrown forward, the g-
forces pulverizing him. How long had passed
since the countdown had ended? Was he in
outer space yet? It seemed to him that the
shaking was more violent than ever. The
whole capsule had become a distorted mass

498/539
of jagged, flickering lines, like the image on a
broken TV screen. He was at max Q, sitting
on four hundred and fifty tonnes of explos-
ive, being rocketed through the sky at
twenty-five times the speed of sound. The
main engine was burning fuel at over one
thousand gallons a second. If the Soyuz was
going to blow up, it would happen now. He
was on fire! Blinding light suddenly crashed
into the capsule. A nuclear explosion. No.
The fairings on the windows had come free.

They weren’t needed any more. He was look-
ing at the sun, which was streaming in,
dazzling him. Was that blue sky or the sea?
How much longer could his body stand the
battering it was receiving? It occurred to
Alex that nothing in the world, no amount of
training, could have prepared him for an ex-
perience like this.

The rocket stopped. That was what it felt
like. The noise fell away and Alex felt a quite
different
light-headed

sensation: a sick,

499/539
floating that told him he had, in an instant,
become weightless. He was about to test it
but then the third stage kicked in and once
again he was propelled forward on this im-
possible fairground ride. This time he closed
his eyes, unable to take any more, and so
didn’t see the moment when he broke
through the onion peel of the earth’s atmo-
sphere and went from blue to black.

At last he opened his eyes. He wanted to
stretch but that was impossible. Alex looked
out of the window and saw stars … thou-
sands of them. Millions. Once again, he had
no sense of movement. Was he really weight-
less? He fumbled a hand into one of the
pockets in his trousers and brought out a
pencil a few centimetres long. He let it go.
The pencil
floated in front of him. Alex
stared at it. Before he knew what he was do-
ing, he was laughing. He couldn’t stop him-
self. It really was like one of those cheap spe-
cial effects in a Hollywood film. But there

500/539
were no hidden wires. No computer trickery.
It was happening right before his eyes.

“Alex? How are you? Are you receiving me?”
Ed Shulsky’s voice crackled in his ear, and
the strange thing was that it sounded no dif-
ferent, no further away—even though Alex
was already almost a hundred miles from the
earth’s surface.

“I’m fine,” Alex replied, and there was a tone
of wonderment in his voice. He had survived
the launch. He was on his way.

“Congratulations. You’ve just broken a world
record. You’re the youngest person in
space…”

He was in space! With the shock of the
launch behind him, Alex tried to relax and
enjoy the view. But the windows were too
small and in the wrong place. The earth was
behind him and out of sight, but there were
the stars and the infinite blackness all

501/539
around. How strange it was, this sense that
he was going nowhere.

The pencil was still
in front of him. He
touched it with his finger and watched it
spin. Round and round it went. Alex was
hypnotized by it. Nothing else seemed to be
moving. This wasn’t a ride at all. He felt as if
everything, his entire life, had stopped.

And then he saw Ark Angel.

At first he was aware of something shaped
like a spider appearing in the periscope at-
tached to the window inside the capsule. It
looked like a star, but much brighter than the
others. Gradually it drew closer. And sud-
denly it became clear, an awesome construc-
tion of
and corridors,
interlocking, criss-crossing, hanging from
what looked like the tower of a crane, with
massive panels stretching out in every direc-
tion, absorbing the energy of the sun. It was
huge;
it weighed almost seven hundred

silver modules

502/539
tonnes. But it was floating effortlessly in the
great emptiness of space, and Alex had to re-
mind himself that every piece of it had been
laboriously constructed on earth and then
carried up separately and assembled. It was
an engineering feat beyond anything he had
ever imagined.

Slowly Ark Angel filled his vision. Both he
and the space station were travelling at sev-
enteen and a half thousand miles per hour,
so fast that to Alex it made no sense at all.
But he seemed to be going very slowly.

Then a booster rocket fired and the Soyuz ac-
celerated, moving in on the central docking
port. It was the only way Alex could measure
his progress through outer space … a few
metres at a time, getting closer and closer.
The rockets were controlled from Flamingo
Bay but they were accurate to a fraction of a
millimetre.

503/539
Alex saw the curving metal plates, the intric-
ate panel work that made up the space sta-
tion. He saw a painted Union Jack and the
words ARK ANGEL printed in grey.

The last part of the journey seemed to take
for ever. The space station was swallowing
him up and he had to remind himself that if
something went wrong now it would have
the impact of a bus smashing into a wall.

There was a slight jolt—nothing compared to
what he had felt earlier. That was it. A voice
crackled in his headset and he thought he
heard applause—unless it was radio static.
Whatever his misgivings about Professor
Sing, it seemed that the flight director had
been true to his word. Alex had arrived.

He looked at his watch. Someone had given
it to him when he got dressed for the launch.
Three o’clock. He had one and a half hours to
find the bomb and either turn it off or move
it. But there was something wrong.

504/539
For a second Alex panicked. Had the oxygen
supply stopped? He swallowed hard, three or
four times, gasping for air. He could feel his
heart hammering and he was certain he was
going to die. But it wasn’t that. There was
still air in the module—he just had to draw it
in. Alex forced himself to calm down. What
was it?

Of course. The silence. Nobody was talking
to him. Either he was on the wrong side of
the planet, out of range of the control centre,
or the radio had broken down. The silence
was total, absolute. He had never felt more
empty, more alone. But it didn’t matter. He
didn’t need anyone to talk to him.

He knew what he had to do.

He unstrapped himself and reached for the
circular hatch just above his head. It was his
first experience of zero gravity and he knew
at once that he’d made a mess of it. He rose
out of the seat far too quickly and his head

505/539
thudded into the metal wall, knocking him
back down again. He ended up where he had
begun—but with a bruised forehead and the
taste of blood in his mouth. A bad start.

Everything had to be done slowly. He
reached up again and found the handle. He
pulled it out and turned it. The hatch swung
outwards.

Alex braced himself. If there was any error, if
the airlock wasn’t secured, he would be ex-
posed to the most lethal environment known
to man. And he would die the most horrible
death. The air would be sucked out of his
lungs and his blood would boil. All his in-
ternal organs would seize up and he would
be ripped apart by the total vacuum of space.
He tried not to think about it. It wasn’t going
to happen. In less than ninety minutes he
would be on his way home.

He found himself
looking into a tunnel,
about eighty centimetres wide and a couple

506/539
of metres long. This was the entrance—they
called it the node—between his capsule and
the reception area of Ark Angel.

Reconditioned air, cold and dry, blew into
his face. He pushed up with his feet, the
lightest movement possible. Effortlessly, he
rose. It was just like he had seen in countless
films. He was flying.

The node led into the first module. Ark Angel
had been built for tourists. It called itself a
space hotel. But of course, it was in truth a
space station very similar to Mir or the ISS,
with very little room and every available inch
crammed with cupboards, lockers and all the
wires, pipes, dials, gauges, switches, circuits
and other essentials needed to keep its in-
habitants alive. Each section was a cylinder
about the size of an ordinary caravan, lit with
a harsh white light and jammed with equip-
ment and handrails on three sides.

507/539
There were more handrails and Velcro straps
on the fourth. Alex understood that to stop
himself floating off he would have to hook
his hands or feet into the floor.

He had expected the interior to be silent. In-
stead he was aware of the humming of the
air conditioners, the throb of pumps circulat-
ing liquid coolants through the walls, the
grinding of metal against metal… tonnes of it
bolted together even as it spun round in or-
bit. He breathed in deeply. The air was very
dry. He wondered how it was produced. Did
it come out of a bottle or was there a
machine?

Alex floated—or tried to. Once again, he
pushed too hard with his feet and the entire
chamber turned upside down as he spun
helplessly around, totally out of control. Des-
pite the injection, he was suffering from what
NASA called space adaptation syndrome. In
other words, he was about to throw up. He
tried to steady himself. One of his hands

508/539
caught the wall, sending him spinning the
other way. He no longer knew what was up
and what was down. He couldn’t even see the
capsule that had brought him here.

He reached out and managed to hook a fin-
ger into one of the straps. That slowed him.
But the whole experience so far had been
horrible. Alex had seen Star Wars. He’d
watched Harrison Ford blast his way across
the universe, and like millions of others he’d
bought into the dream. The reality was noth-
ing like it.

His body was sending his brain weird sig-
nals. He was sweating. The balance of his in-
ner ear had gone. His bones, no longer
needed, were leaking calcium. His back was
aching because of the elongation of his spine.

Inside his stomach, his guts were floating
helplessly, and because of the shift in his flu-
id level, he felt a desperate need to go to the

509/539
toilet. None of this had ever happened to
Harrison Ford.

And it got worse. Alex stopped spinning and
found himself floating in the very centre of
the module.

Either he was moving very slowly or he
wasn’t moving at all. The rails and Velcro
straps were now uselessly high above his
head. He stretched out his arms and dis-
covered that the walls were a couple of centi-
metres out of reach. It was like some terrible
nightmare. Every time he strained forward,
his body moved back. He was quite literally
stranded, floating helplessly, going nowhere.

What now? How did he make himself go up
or down? He jerked his body and pedalled
with his legs. It didn’t help. He tried waving
his arms like a bird in a bad cartoon.
Nothing.

Alex started to panic. Nobody had warned
him about this. He was stuck in zero gravity

510/539
and he began to wonder if he wasn’t doomed
to remain like this until Ark Angel blew itself
apart. He couldn’t move!

It took him what seemed like an eternity to
work it out. It was amazing really that a
physics lesson on a damp Wednesday at
Brookland School, should suddenly come to
mind and save his life. He took off his shoes
and threw them with all his strength. The
forward motion produced an opposite reac-
tion, a bit like the recoil from a gun. Alex was
thrown back and managed to grab hold of a
handrail. He clung there for a moment,
breathing heavily. It had been a nasty mo-
ment and he would have to be very careful it
didn’t happen again.

He had to get moving. He hadn’t been able to
see the observation module and the remain-
ing stages of Gabriel 7 on the far side of the
space station, but he knew they were there.
The rocket had docked automatically almost
an hour ago and had brought with it an

511/539
activated bomb. He looked at his watch
again. Twenty-five minutes had passed!
There was barely an hour left. If the bomb
exploded at the right time and in the right
place, he would be vaporized, and a four
hundred tonne missile would begin its
deadly journey back to earth. Alex thought
back to the map of Ark Angel he had been
shown and knew that he had to navigate his
way through an interlocking series of mod-
ules
to reach his destination. He re-
membered what Ed Shulsky had told him.

“Don’t try to defuse it unless you’re sure you
know what you’re doing, Alex. You press the
wrong button, you’ll be doing Drevin’s work
for him. Just move it into the sleeping area.
That’s all you have to do. Move it and then
get the hell out. Fast.”

It was ticking right now. Alex could imagine
it. Just the two of them. Him and a bomb on
a space station orbiting the earth.

512/539
He was about to set off when he heard
something. The clang of a hatch closing. It
was quite unmistakable.

He stopped and listened. Nothing. What
next? Martians? He must have imagined it.
Alex pushed off with his feet, as gently as
possible, trying to steer himself towards the
next module. Once again he had pushed too
hard. His shoulder hit
the roof—or the
floor—of the node and for a second time he
found himself spinning out of control.

He reached out with his hands to steady
himself and found himself holding onto a
lever that jutted out of the wall. It was a
shutter release. Unable to contain his curios-
ity, he opened it, wondering if it would give
him a view of the earth. But the space station
was facing the wrong way. Alex reeled back,
almost blinded, as brilliant light burst into
the module. Professor Sing had warned him
not to look directly into the sun.

513/539
Even in that brief instant, Alex had almost
blinded himself.

He closed the shutter again and waited for
his sight to return, then continued, gently
flying into the sleeping area, the bunks at-
tached vertically to the wall with straps to
keep the crew members or guests from drift-
ing off. In space you could sleep sideways,
standing or upside down;
it made no
difference.

There was a long, brightly lit corridor
straight ahead—four or five modules bolted
together. Everything was white. This was the
very heart of Ark Angel, with the dining
room, the exercise room, the showers and
lavatories, a living room and two laboratories
all laid out next to one another. Gabriel 7
would have docked at the far end.

Alex tensed himself, preparing to make the
next leap. He reached out with the palms of
his hands. And froze.

514/539
A man had appeared in front of him, dressed
in an identical suit to his own. The man was
wearing a skullcap but, seeing Alex, he tore it
off, revealing a mirror image of the world
three hundred miles below.

Kaspar. Of course.

Alex had forgotten about him. So had every-
one else. But Professor Sing must have
known that Kaspar had been on board Gabri-
el 7—that was the one piece of information
he had been keeping to himself. Why? Had
he been so scared of Kaspar that he couldn’t
bring himself to reveal the whole truth?

It looked as if Alex would never know. Kas-
par had seen him. He was only twenty
metres away, at the other end of the corridor.
He hadn’t spoken a word but now—expertly,
as if he had been trained—he pushed for-
ward, floating through the air towards him.
He was confident, in perfect control.

And he was holding a knife.

RE-ENTRY

It was something straight out of a nightmare.
It was every nightmare rolled into one. The
hideously tattooed face, the knife, Ark Angel,
outer space… Alex could only watch help-
lessly as Kaspar headed towards him, flying,
arms outstretched, legs trailing behind.

What was he doing in the space station?

And suddenly Alex understood.

The second rocket, the orang-utan, Drevin’s
so-called experiment in weightlessness—they
had all been part of the plan. There was no
experiment. There never had been.

Kaspar had gone up in Gabriel 7. And Alex
knew why. His own experience of the launch
should have made him see that it would have
been completely insane to try sending an
armed bomb into space. The terrible vibra-
tions would have set it off before it had even

516/539
left the atmosphere. Only when it was in
space could it be armed, and that had meant
sending someone up with it. Kaspar. But now
he needed to get back again. That was the
point of the second rocket. Professor Sing
must have known all along. The Soyuz had
been sent up to collect him. And Kaspar
would surely have left instructions behind. If
anything went wrong, if the rocket didn’t ar-
rive, the professor would have been killed.
No wonder he had looked so nervous! In the
end, he had made a choice. Send the rocket
and let the two of them fight it out.

That was something else Alex understood.
There were now two of them in the space sta-
tion. But there was only one seat home.

Kaspar passed through the first node, where
he was bathed momentarily in soft, pink
light before he emerged into the glare of the
next module. He seemed to be adept at ma-
nipulating himself in zero gravity.

517/539
He had aimed carefully and pushed off
lightly. One hand touched a wall to correct
himself; the other still clasped the knife. He
was taking his time—but then he knew Alex
had nowhere to hide. Just seconds remained
before they would come face to face in a
module barely large enough for them both.

Alex searched around him for a weapon, any-
thing he could use to defend himself. But
everything was packed down too neatly. The
cupboards and lockers were closed. He was
still feeling sick and disorientated and every
movement he made threatened to propel
him in the wrong direction. If he lost control
and went into another spin he would be fin-
ished. Kaspar would cut him to pieces.

Kaspar passed through the next node. In a
few moments he would arrive in the same
module as Alex. The sleeping area. This was
the place Professor Sing and Ed Shulsky had
shown him on the map. The heart of Ark An-
gel. It seemed an appropriate meeting point.

518/539
Maybe he could reason with Kaspar. The
mission was pointless now—surely he would
see sense?

But Alex doubted it. Kaspar’s eyes looked
empty, mad. There was a twisted smile on
his lips. The knife he was holding was a
Sabatier, the blade a single piece of high car-
bon stainless steel, hand-honed and about
ten centimetres long. Where had he got it
from? He couldn’t possibly have brought it
with him. Then Alex remembered. Ark Angel
was a hotel. One day it might have a chef cut-
ting sirloin steak for some American multi-
millionaire, and someone had made sure he
was properly equipped. Kaspar must have
picked up the knife as he passed through the
kitchen.

As Kaspar entered the sleeping area, Alex did
the only thing he could. He crouched low,
then kicked out, propelling himself along, a
few inches above the floor, as if he were
swimming underwater
in a pool. His

519/539
movement caught Kaspar unawares, and the
man sailed past above him. Alex realized that
there was one thing you couldn’t do in zero
gravity: change direction. Kaspar continued
to the far wall, but as he passed him he
slashed down with the knife. Alex felt the tip
cut into the suit between his shoulder blades.
He was lucky. Another few millimetres and it
would have drawn blood. It had sliced the
suit’s material but hadn’t pierced his skin.

Kaspar reached the far wall and clung onto
one of
the handholds. Alex continued
through into the next module and managed
to stop himself. He found himself surroun-
ded by gym equipment: a treadmill, a pair of
chest expanders, a rowing machine—but
nothing he could throw at Kaspar. Where
were the weights? Of course, there was no
point having weights in a weightless environ-
ment. Alex scrabbled for one of the lockers
and the door fell open. There were tools in-
side. A hammer, a curiously shaped ratchet,

520/539
some sort of bolt tightener. He grabbed the
hammer, pulled it free and held it in front of
him.

Alex turned and saw Kaspar preparing to
launch a second attack. The man seemed
crazed, as if he were on drugs. Perhaps he
was. Or perhaps he found the experience of
being in space as terrifying as Alex did.

“Kaspar!” Alex wasn’t sure what to call him.
What was his real name? Magnus Payne?
But that wasn’t how the two knew each oth-
er. “It’s over,” he went on. “There’s no point
in this. Drevin is dead. The CIA’s in control
on Flamingo Bay.”

“You’re lying!”

“How do you think I got here? There’s noth-
ing for you to do. Dropping Ark Angel on
Washington—there’s no point. Drevin’s
dead.”

“No!”

521/539
Two continents twisted in anger and disbe-
lief as Kaspar kicked off, this time travelling
diagonally down.

Alex knew there was no point trying to reas-
on with him. Whatever had happened on
Flamingo Bay, Kaspar needed the Soyuz.
Alex stood in his way. So Alex had to die.

Kaspar flew towards him. Alex brought the
hammer round and threw it with all his
strength. For a moment he thought it would
travel
in slow motion. Wasn’t that what
happened in films? But it didn’t. The ham-
mer spun at full speed through the air and
hit Kaspar on the shoulder. But would the
hammer do any damage if it weighed noth-
ing? Once again Alex thought back to his
physics class, starting work on his GCSEs.
The hammer picked up energy because of
motion; the energy was dispersed when it
came to rest.

522/539
In this instance, it came to rest because it
had hit Kaspar square on. Kaspar howled
and dropped the knife.

Energy dispersed equalled pain!

But the forward motion was enough to send
Alex stumbling back, and for a moment he
lost control. His shoulders crashed into a
wall. Or perhaps it was the ceiling or the
floor. It made no difference. Kaspar had
leapt forward. He plunged down as if he had
been fired from a gun, and a second later he
was on top of Alex.

The blue and green skin of the man’s face
was just inches away. Eyes full of hatred
glared at him. Kaspar’s hands closed around
his throat and began to tighten. The man was
strangling him. And there was nothing Alex
could do. He had no gadgets, no weapons.
He couldn’t even move. He could feel metal
plates against his shoulders, one of the lock-
ers pressing into his back. Kaspar was

523/539
floating horizontally above him, connected to
Alex only by his hands. The breath was no
longer reaching Alex’s lungs; the grip was too
tight. He felt dizzy. In a few seconds he
would pass out.

Barely knowing what he was doing, he
scrabbled behind him. His knuckles brushed
against some sort of lever. What was it? Even
as his consciousness began to leave him, Alex
remembered. He knew what the lever did.
But now he couldn’t find it. Desperately he
lashed out and his flailing hand caught hold
of it. He pulled down.

The shutter opened and the light that had al-
most blinded him before exploded into the
module a second time, shafting in over his
shoulder. The window was facing directly in-
to the sun and the light had a physical force
as it burst in. Alex could feel it burning his
neck and shoulders. The whole capsule
seemed to disintegrate into a brilliant chaos

524/539
of white and silver, all other colours sucked
out.

Kaspar screamed as the light seared his eyes.
It was as if he had been punched in the face
by the sun itself, and his hands fell away, in-
stinctively coming up to protect himself. Alex
brought his legs up and kicked; his feet
slammed into Kaspar’s stomach. Alex’s back
was against the wall, and Kaspar was sent
hurtling towards the other side of
the
module.

The Sabatier knife was right behind him.

It had been hovering there, its deadly point
aimed at Kaspar’s neck. As Kaspar travelled
backwards it went with him, but then the
handle came into contact with the wall. The
blade entered the city of Beijing and contin-
ued its journey, burrowing into the world’s
surface. Kaspar’s body jerked as if he had
been electrocuted. Then he was still.

525/539
Lying underneath him, Alex watched in dis-
belief. Kaspar’s arms were hanging down to-
wards him. He was in the middle of the mod-
ule, not touching any surface, suspended
there. A string of bright crimson marbles ap-
peared and began to orbit around his head.
They grew larger. Now they were golf balls,
trailing away, glistening red.

The knife had severed an artery. Kaspar’s
blood hung around him like a grotesque
Christmas decoration.

Alex had had enough. The module was heat-
ing up rapidly, still exposed to the sun, and
he reached out and closed the shutter. A
shadow fell across Kaspar’s
face. The
marbles darkened.

With his skin crawling, wanting to get away
from the obscene,
floating body, Alex
dragged himself into the next module using a
series of Velcro grips. He found himself next
to a space toilet, a grey plastic box with some

526/539
sort of cone device floating at the end of a
pipe. He needed to use it. He was going to be
sick. Grimly he swallowed, forcing himself to
stay calm. He didn’t want to find out what
vomit looked like in outer space.

The bomb…

How much time did he have left? Alex looked
at his watch. One minute past four. Just
twenty-nine minutes left. He had to move
quickly. To have come so far, to have been
through so much, only to die now! He forced
himself to concentrate, to control his move-
ments. He remembered the map he had been
shown in the control centre. He knew where
he had to go.

The hatch leading into the capsule that had
brought Kaspar into space was open, and
Alex saw the bomb at once. It was shaped
like a torpedo, black, with six tiny switches
and a glass panel with a digital read-out.

527/539
The whole thing was strapped to the wall,
held in place with Velcro. With a ghastly sort
of fascination, Alex lowered himself into the
module and floated next to it. There was a
six-figure display, rapidly counting down:
27:07:05. Alex checked it against his watch.
Yes. Three minutes past four. He had just
twenty-seven minutes left.

Could he turn it off? Alex examined the
switches but there were no symbols, nothing
to tell him what function they performed.
Did he dare press one? If he made a mistake,
he’d be blown to smithereens. He reached
out a finger. His mouth was dry. Being so
close to the bomb filled him with horror. But
he had to try, didn’t he? Drevin might have
perverted the genius of Ark Angel but, even
so, the space station was a technological mir-
acle, completely unique, the world’s first
hotel in orbit around the earth. Could Alex
really allow it to be destroyed? His finger
rested against the top switch. All he had to

528/539
do was flick it. It might deactivate the bomb,
but it might set it off. The question was, did
he dare take the risk?

The numbers in the display were still count-
ing down. Now they showed 25:33:00.

Alex swore. Why didn’t they have some sort
of rubbish chute? Then he could get rid of
the bomb, jettison it into outer space. There
probably was an airlock on Ark Angel, but he
had no idea how to operate it.

Anyway, there was no time. His finger was
still touching the switch. One of six switches.
A one in six chance of getting it right.

Not good enough.

Alex let out a long, shuddering breath and
withdrew his hand. He took hold of the still-
ticking bomb and gently unfastened it, then
eased it up through the hatch and back into
the centre of the space hotel. Ed Shulsky had
told him where to leave it, but Alex made the

529/539
decision for himself. The toilet. Somehow it
seemed a fitting end. He lowered the nose of
the torpedo into it and left it there.

It was time to go.

He pushed himself off as gently as he could
and was rewarded with a slow, careful pro-
gression back towards the waiting module of
the Soyuz. He passed underneath Kaspar,
taking care not to look up. In a few minutes’
time, the dead man was going to be given
one of the most spectacular cremations any-
one could ask for. It was more than he
deserved.

The docking station was ahead of him—but
there was one last thing he had to do. He
looked at his watch.

Eleven minutes past four. There were just
nineteen minutes remaining, and Alex knew
it was madness to waste even a few seconds.
But he would never have this opportunity
again. He found another window on the

530/539
opposite side from the sun, opened the shut-
ter and looked out.

And there it was.

Planet earth. Seen from outer space.

His first thought was how big it was; his
second, how small. Of course, he had seen
images of the earth taken by astronauts. But
this was different. He was seeing it with his
own eyes. And he was moving. As he
crouched in front of the porthole, he was
travelling so fast that it would take him just
ninety minutes to go all the way round. No
wonder it seemed small. And yet the earth
filled his vision. All the life in the universe,
five billion people, was concentrated there.
And the thought of that was enormous.

He was struck by the colours. No photo-
graphs could have prepared him for the
sheer iridescence of the planet. It looked as if
it were lit from inside. At first it seemed that
everything was blue and white—most of the

531/539
planet was water—and Alex remembered ly-
ing on his back when he was small, staring at
a perfect summer sky. If he could have
turned the sky into a ball, that was what he
was seeing now. But as he gazed down he
began to make out the shape of the coast-
lines, a thin line of emerald green; and then
Ark Angel turned the corner of the world and
there was Africa—all of Africa ahead of
him—and suddenly he was seeing intense
gold, yellow and red … mountains and
deserts but no cities. Nothing moving. And
he wondered, if he was an alien and came
upon the earth, could he pass by without be-
ing aware of the teeming life below?

But then day became night and he found
himself over the western Mediterranean sea-
board, and even from three hundred miles
away he could make out thousands of electric
lights that had to be man-made. Spain and
Gibraltar,. Turkey, Tunisia, Algeria and the
Lebanon—all of them were visible at once,

532/539
the tiny lights blinking like fireflies. There
were storms over Europe. Alex saw the light-
ning shimmer through the clouds.

It wasn’t just that there was life on earth. The
whole earth was alive. Alex could feel
it
pulsating beneath him, and suddenly he
knew that for all its technology, Ark Angel
was a sterile, dead place and he didn’t care
that soon it would no longer exist. He had
made the right decision. At that moment,
Alex felt a sense of loneliness he would re-
member for the rest of his life. He wanted to
go home.

He made his way back to the Soyuz module,
trying to control his progress but still crash-
ing into the walls.

Only by holding onto the handrails did he
prevent himself
from going into another
sickening spin. He had a raging thirst and
wished he’d found himself something to
drink before he left. What happened when

533/539
you opened a can of Coke in space? He would
never find out.

Somehow he reached the entrance and fol-
ded himself in. He was operating on auto-
matic. All he wanted was to get away. He
reached up and closed the hatch, turning the
lever to lock it before blastoff. This was the
compartment he had travelled up in. But it
was going to stay behind. There was a second
hatch underneath him and he opened it,
passing into the re-entry module below.
There was more room here. Of course. The
re-entry module had to be big enough for
Kaspar. He strapped himself into the seat,
found another headset and put it on, won-
dering if it would work.

“Alex? What is your status?” It was Tamara’s
voice. He had never been happier to hear
anyone.

“The bomb is still active,” he said. He looked
at his watch. Twenty-five
four.

past

534/539
“Professor Sing lied to us,” he went on. “Kas-
par was here. And now I’ve only got five
minutes left. Get me out of here.”

Another burst of static. A disembodied voice
was muttering half-words that made no
sense. There had to be something wrong with
the radio. Alex wondered what would hap-
pen next. How long would he have to sit here
before he disengaged? And what would hap-
pen if he didn’t? The second hand on his
watch ticked round. It seemed to be taunting
him, moving faster than it should. The time
now was twenty-eight minutes past four.

Already he was sweating. Hunched up on his
back with no view, he had no idea where he
was, how much further he was around the
world. Twenty-nine minutes past four. Had
he reached the last sixty seconds of his life?

He felt a sudden jolt. For a terrible moment,
he thought that the bomb had detonated.
Then he realized that was impossible. He

535/539
hadn’t heard anything but he was suddenly
aware that the module’s retro-rockets must
have been fired. He twisted his head round
and peered through the periscope. Ark Angel
was already a mile away, vanishing into
space like a pebble dropped into a well.

And then it exploded.

The bomb blew up, a burst of orange flame
that ripped the entire space station apart,
sending the different modules spinning in
different directions. The arms with the solar
panels fell away. There were two more explo-
sions. A shower of brilliant sparks and a
dazzling burst of white light that stretched
out in silence.

Alex felt a sense of euphoria. He had suc-
ceeded! He had put the bomb in exactly the
right place, and instead of propelling Ark An-
gel towards Washington, it had simply des-
troyed it. There was nothing left. A few

536/539
pieces were falling through space but they
would quickly burn up. At last it was over.

He fell.

The crackle on the radio stopped abruptly.
Alex found himself in the grip of a silence so
complete that for a moment he thought he
might have died, and he had to remind him-
self he wasn’t home yet. He was plummeting
down, feet forward, moving at eighteen thou-
sand miles an hour. Five miles a second. This
was the most dangerous part of the entire
journey. If the control centre had miscalcu-
lated, he would be incinerated. Already he
was aware of a pink glow outside the window
as the module began to rub against the
earth’s upper atmosphere.

And then he was on fire. The whole world
was on fire. The very air was breaking up, be-
ing smashed to pieces, the electrons separat-
ing from the nuclei.

537/539
The module had become a fireball, and Alex
knew that his life depended on the hundreds
of thermal tiles that surrounded him. He was
in the heart of a living hell.

He yelled out. He couldn’t help himself.

Then the red disappeared, like a curtain be-
ing torn apart.

He saw blue.

There was a second, back-breaking jolt as the
parachute deployed. The world seemed to
shimmer on the other side of the window
and Alex saw the Pacific Ocean spread out
before him.

A splash. Steam. Waves lashing at the win-
dows. Sunlight
into
diamonds.

turning the water

And at last silence.

He was rocking back and forth, a hundred
miles off the eastern coast of Australia. The

538/539
wrong side of the world—but that didn’t
matter.

Alex Rider was back.

@Created by PDF to ePub

