SNAKEHEAD_PI_UK_00000  3/18/08  11:54 AM  Page 4

For B & CD

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and 

incidents are either the product of the author’s 

imagination or, if real, used fictitiously.

First published 2007 by Walker Books Ltd

87 Vauxhall Walk, London SE11 5HJ

This edition published 2008

2 4 6 8 10 9 7 5 3 1

Text © 2007, 2008 Stormbreaker Productions Ltd 

Cover design by Walker Books Ltd
Trademarks 2007 Alex Rider™, 

Boy with Torch Logo™, 

Stormbreaker Productions Ltd

The right of Anthony Horowitz to be identified as author 
of this work has been asserted by him in accordance with 

the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988

This book has been typeset in Officina Sans

Printed and bound in Australia by Griffin Press

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, 
transmitted or stored in an information retrieval system in 
any form or by any means, graphic, electronic or mechanical, 

including photocopying, taping and recording, without 

prior written permission from the publisher.

British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data:

a catalogue record for this book

is available from the British Library

ISBN 978-1-4063-1039-9

www.walkerbooks.co.uk

CODA

The airport belonged to another age, a time when

air travel was an adventure, when planes still had
propellers  and  had  to  stop  at  strange-sounding
places  to  refuel  on  their  way  across  the  world.
There was just one runway, a narrow strip of silver-
grey concrete cutting through grass that had been
perfectly  mown.  The  single  terminal  was  a  white
building  with  a  curving  entrance  and  a  terrace
where  people  could  watch  the  planes  take  off.  It
could  have  been  the  clubhouse  of  an  expensive
golf course.

The airport had no name. Although it was only
an hour outside London, there were no road signs
pointing to it. Indeed, it seemed to have done its
best to lose itself in a maze of country lanes that
looped  and  twisted  through  thick  woodland.  The
local residents – and the nearest house was more
than a mile away – believed it was a private flying
club,  used  by  millionaires  with  their  own  planes.
For a brief time, it had been.

It had been bought by the British secret service
back  in  the  seventies,  and  now  it  was  used  for
flights  that  nobody  talked  about.  People  who
weren’t  meant  to  be  in  the  country  arrived  here 
on planes that didn’t exist. There was no passport
control, because very few of the travellers carried
passports – and if they did, they would probably be
fake. A white control tower stood at the far end of
the runway. It managed not just the incoming and
outgoing  flights  but  all  the  surrounding  airspace.
When planes were ready to take off here, Heathrow
and Gatwick just had to wait.

At  nine  thirty  on  a  cold  morning  at  the  end 
of April, a blue Rover Vitesse was making its way
towards  this  secret  airport.  The  sound  of  the  V8
engine was almost inaudible as it cruised through
a virtual tunnel of leaves. The start of the month
had  been  warm  and  sunny,  but  there  had  been  a
cold  snap  the  night  before,  and  the  result  was 
a layer of fog floating over the ground, deadening
everything and turning the world a ghostly white.

A man and a woman were sitting in the back.
The driver had no idea who they were. His name
was Enderby and he was a low-level MI6 operative
trained for certain duties – the first of which was
never to ask questions. He had picked them up at a
London hotel at six o’clock exactly, loaded a single
suitcase into the boot and brought them here.

And  yet,  glancing  in  the  rear-view  mirror,
Enderby  couldn’t  stop  himself  wondering  about 

his passengers. He guessed they were husband and
wife.  There  was  something  about  their  body  lan-
guage  that  said  as  much,  even  though  neither  of
them had uttered a word throughout the journey.
The man was in his thirties, well built with close-
cropped  fair  hair  and  dark,  tired  eyes.  He  was
wearing  a  suit  with  an  open-necked  shirt.  What
would you think he was, seeing him in the street?
Something  in  the  City,  perhaps.  Private  security.
Ex-army.  This  was  a  man  who  knew  how  to  look
after  himself.  He  had  the  relaxed  confidence  of
someone who is very dangerous.

The woman sitting next to him was unhappy –
Enderby had noticed that from the moment she had
stepped  reluctantly  into  the  car.  He  could  see  it
now  in  her  eyes.  They  were  nice  eyes:  blue,  very
bright. But they were troubled. All in all, she was
very attractive. A couple of years younger than the
man, maybe an actress or a dancer. She was wear-
ing a jacket and grey trousers and – yes, there it
was – a wedding ring on her finger.

Enderby was right. The two people in the back 
of his car were called John and Helen Rider. They
had  been  married  for  four  years.  They  were  here
because  they  were  leaving  the  country  –  perhaps
permanently. They had been apart for a long time,
but that was all over now. Their new life together
was about to begin.

They had almost arrived. Enderby had driven this
route many times and recognized the elm tree with

the nesting box hanging from one of its branches.
The  airport  was  half  a  mile  away.  However,  he 
was  completely  unaware  of  the  advanced  high-
resolution  camera  with  its  25mm  varifocal  lens
concealed  inside  the  nesting  box.  And  he  would
have  been  surprised  to  learn  that  even  now  his
face  was  being  examined  on  a  television  screen
inside the control tower. It was actually the third
hidden  camera  they  had  passed  in  the  last  five
minutes.

The car broke out of the wood and crossed a cat-
tle  grid  set  in  the  road.  If  the  driver  had  been
identified as an enemy agent, the grid would have
rotated  and  shredded  the  tyres.  The  airport  lay
ahead; a plane was waiting on the runway. It was
an  old  twin-engine  Avro  Anson  C19  that  might
have been rolled out of a museum. Once used by
the RAF for coastal patrol, the Anson hadn’t been
seen in regular service for twenty years. Certainly
it suited the airport. They were both relics of the
past.

A  slim,  dark-haired  man  stepped  out  of  the 
terminal  building,  supporting  himself  on  a  heavy
walking  stick.  He  had  been  sent  to  supervise  the
departure.  Enderby  recognized  him  with  surprise.
He had visited the man a couple of times recently
in hospital and had worked with him in the past.
His  name  was  Anthony  Howell.  His  middle  name
was Sean.

People called him Ash.

The car slowed down and stopped. The man got
out,  went  round  and  opened  the  door  for  the
woman.  The  two  of  them  moved  forward  to  meet
Ash.

“John. Helen.” Ash smiled at them but he had

recently been in too much pain. It still showed. 

“How are you, Ash?” John Rider asked.
“I’m OK.” 
That  obviously  wasn’t  true.  Ash  was  feverish,
sweating. His hand was gripping the walking stick
so tightly that the knuckles were white.

“You look terrible.”
“Yeah.”  Ash  didn’t  disagree.  “They  sent  me  to
say  goodbye.  Are  you  ready?  I’ll  get  your  case
loaded on board.”

He  limped  past  them,  over  to  the  car.  Enderby

unlocked the boot and took out the suitcase.
“He’s not very talkative,” Helen muttered.
“He’s hurt.” John glanced at his wife. “Are you

OK?”

“I don’t like leaving Alex.”
“I know that. Nor do I. But we didn’t have any

choice. You heard what the doctor said.”

Alex  Rider  was  three  months  old.  Just  a  few 
days  before,  he  had  developed  an  ear  infection
which  meant  that  he  couldn’t  fly.  Helen  had  left
him  with  a  cheerful  Irishwoman,  Maud  Kelly,  a
maternity  nurse  who  had  been  with  them  since 
the  birth.  Helen’s  first  instinct  had  been  to  stay
with  her  infant  son.  But  she  also  needed  to  be 

with her husband. The two of them had been apart
for too long.

“Maud will come out with him next week,” John

Rider said.

“His new home.” Helen smiled, but a little sadly.
“It’s  strange  to  think  he’ll  grow  up  speaking
French.”

“With a dad who’s a fisherman.”
“Better a fisherman than a spy.”
Secret agents don’t often retire. Some are killed
in action; some leave the field and end up behind 
a desk, providing support for the men and women
who have taken their place. Even when they leave
the  service,  they  are  still  watched  –  just  in  case
they decide to sell their secrets or go into business
for themselves.

John Rider was different. He had recently com-
pleted  a  long  and  brutal  assignment  which  had
culminated in a shoot-out on the island of Malta,
followed  by  his  faked  death  on  Albert  Bridge  in
London. During that time, he had inflicted serious
damage  on  the  criminal  organization  known  as
Scorpia.  If  Scorpia  discovered  that  he  was  still
alive, they would make him a primary target. MI6
knew  that.  They  understood  that  his  usefulness
was effectively over. They had decided to let him
go.

Ash came back over to them. He had a mobile
phone in his hand. “The control tower just called,”
he said. “You’re all set for take-off.”

“Why  don’t  you  come  and  stay  with  us,  Ash?”
Helen  suggested.  “You  could  fly  down  with  Alex. 
A week in the sun would do you good.”

Ash tried to smile but something prevented him.

“That’s kind of you, Helen. Maybe…”

“Well, keep in touch.” John Rider was examining
the  other  man  with  a  certain  unease.  The  two  of
them had worked together, but they had also been
friends for many years.

“Good luck.” Ash seemed in a hurry to get away.
They  shook  hands.  Then  Ash  leant  forward  and
kissed Helen once on the cheek, but so lightly that
she  barely  felt  his  lips.  The  husband  and  wife
began to walk towards the plane.

“What’s wrong with him?” Helen asked as soon
as they were out of earshot. “I know he’s hurt. But
he seems so … distant.”

“He’s being axed.” John spoke the words casu-
ally.  “He  screwed  up  in  Malta  and  he  knows  it.
Blunt wants him out.”

“What will happen to him?”
“An office job somewhere. A junior outpost.”
“Does he blame you?”
“I don’t know, Helen. To be honest, I don’t really

care. It’s not my business any more.”

They had reached the plane. The pilot saw them
through the cockpit window and raised a hand in
greeting. His name was Robert Fleming and he had
flown  with  the  RAF  in  the  Falklands  War.  Killing
Argentine  soldiers,  some  of  them  just  kids,  had

changed  his  mind  about  active  service;  and  after
that  he  had  allowed  himself  to  be  recruited  by
MI6. Now he flew all over the world for them. The
co-pilot was a man called Blakeway. Both of them
were married. There was no cabin crew.

Standing  on  the  terrace  outside  the  terminal,
Ash watched John and Helen Rider climb the metal
staircase that led up to the plane. John stood aside
to let Helen go first, gently taking her arm as she
reached the top step. They entered the aircraft and
pulled  the  door  shut  from  inside.  A  couple  of
ground  crew  in  white  overalls  wheeled  the  steps
away. The first of the Anson’s two propellers began
to turn.

Ash  thought  he  was  going  to  faint.  The  pain 
in  his  stomach  was  worse  than  ever.  It  was  as  if
the Russian assassin Yassen Gregorovich had some-
how managed to stab him a second time and was
twisting  the  knife  even  now.  The  plane’s  engines
had both started up but he could barely hear the
sound.  The  sky,  the  grass,  the  airport,  the  Anson
…  nothing  connected  any  more.  He  could  feel
beads of sweat on his forehead. They were ice-cold.

Could he really do this?
Was he going to go through with it?
He  had  been  released  from  hospital  after  six
weeks of treatment that had included being given
eleven  pints  of  blood.  The  doctors  had  told  him
what he already knew. He would never be the same
again.  Not  completely.  There  had  been  too  much

damage. And the pain would always be with him.
He  would  need  a  barrage  of  drugs  to  keep  it 
at bay.

And  had  they  been  grateful,  the  people  he
worked for, the ones who had caused this to hap-
pen to him? He still remembered his meeting with
Alan Blunt. The head of MI6 Special Operations had
given him precisely five minutes: his injuries were
his own fault. He had totally mishandled the oper-
ation in Mdina. He had disobeyed orders. He was
being taken off active duty with immediate effect.

Blunt hadn’t even asked how he was feeling.
Ash  had  known  what  he  was  going  to  do  even
before  he  left  Blunt’s  office.  For  a  moment,  the
pain was forgotten; he felt only anger and disbe-
lief. How could they treat him like this? No. It was
obvious now. They had always treated him like this.
Nothing had changed. He had been overlooked and
underrated from the start.

But he had numbers. He had contacts. He didn’t
care what he had to do. He would show MI6 that
they were wrong about him. They had made a mis-
take they were going to regret.

He made the call as soon as he was in the street,
away  from  the  eavesdropping  devices  that  were
scattered  all  over  Special  Ops  HQ.  After  that,
things happened very quickly. That same evening,
he met a man in a south London pub. The next day,
he  was  interviewed  at  length  by  two  blank-faced
men  in  an  abandoned  warehouse  behind  the  old

meat market at Smithfield in Clerkenwell. Patiently
he  repeated  everything  he  had  said  the  night
before.

The next call came two days later. Ash was given
twenty  minutes  to  get  across  London  to  the  Ritz
Hotel and a suite on the second floor. He arrived 
in exactly the specified time, knowing that he had
almost certainly been followed the whole way and
that it had been arranged like this to prevent him
communicating with anyone else. There was to be
no chance of a trap.

After  he  had  been  thoroughly  searched  by  the
two men he had met before, he was shown into the
suite. A woman was waiting for him, sitting on her
own in an armchair, her perfectly manicured fingers
curving round a flute of champagne. She was strik-
ingly beautiful with shoulder-length black hair and
glittering, cruel eyes. She was wearing a designer
dress, a whisper of red silk; diamond earrings; and
a single large diamond at her throat.

Ash tried not to show any emotion. But he knew
the woman. He had never met her but he had seen
her file. It was hard to believe that he was actually
in the same room as her.

Julia Rothman. 
According  to  the  file,  she  was  the  daughter  of
Welsh nationalists, who had married – and murdered
– an elderly property developer for his wealth. She
was on the executive board of Scorpia. Indeed, she
was one of its founding members.

“You want to join us,” she said, and he heard a

hint of Welsh in her voice. She seemed amused.

“Yes.”
“What  makes  you  think  we’d  be  interested  in

you?”

“If  you  weren’t  interested  in  me,  you  wouldn’t

be here.”

That  made  her  smile.  “How  do  I  know  we  can

trust you?”

“Mrs  Rothman…”  Ash  wondered  if  he  should
have used her name. He spoke slowly. He knew he
would only have this one chance. “I’ve spent four
years  with  MI6.  They’ve  given  me  nothing.  Now
I’ve finished with them – or perhaps I should say
they’ve  finished  with  me.  But  you  probably  know
that already. Scorpia always did have a reputation
for being well informed. How do you know you can
trust  me?  Only  time  will  give  you  an  answer  to
that. But I can be useful to you. A double agent.
Think  about  it.  You  want  someone  inside  Special
Operations. That can be me.”

Julia  Rothman  sipped  her  champagne  but  her
eyes  never  left  Ash.  “This  could  be  a  trick,”  she
said.

“Then let me prove myself.”
“Of  course.  Anyone  who  joins  Scorpia  has  to
prove themselves to our complete satisfaction, Mr
Howell. But I warn you: the test might not be an
easy one.”

“I’m ready for anything.”

“Would you kill for us?”
Ash shrugged. “I’ve killed before.”
“Before it was duty. For queen and country. This

time it would be murder.”

“I’ve already explained: I want to join Scorpia. 

I don’t care what I have to do.”

“We’ll  see.”  She  set  the  glass  down,  then  pro-

duced a white envelope. She slid it towards him.

“There is a name inside this envelope,” she said.
“It is the name of a man who has done us a great
deal  of  harm.  Killing  him  will  prove  beyond  all
doubt that you mean what you say. But a warning.
Once you open that envelope, you will have com-
mitted yourself. You cannot change your mind. If
you try to do so, you will be dead before you leave
this hotel.”

“I  understand.”  Ash  was  uneasy.  He  picked  up

the envelope and held it in front of him.

“We will provide the manner of his death,” Mrs
Rothman  went  on,  “but  you  will  be  the  one  who
pulls the trigger. And when he is dead, you will be
paid one hundred thousand pounds. It will be the
first payment of many. Over the years, if you stay
true to us, Scorpia will make you very rich.”

“Thank you.” Suddenly Ash’s mouth was dry. The

envelope was still balanced on his fingertips.

“So are you going to open it?”
He  made  his  decision.  He  ripped  the  envelope
open with his thumb. And there was the name in
front of him. Black letters on white paper.

JOHN RIDER

Julia Rothman looked at him quizzically.

So  they  knew.  That  was  his  first  thought.  The
elaborate  trick  that  had  been  played  on  Albert
Bridge  hadn’t  worked  –  or  if  it  had,  there  had
somehow  been  a  leak.  They  had  learnt  that  John
Rider was still alive. And as for this test, they knew
exactly  what  they  were  doing.  Ash  would  have
been happy to kill anybody in the world. He would
have  killed  Blunt  or  anyone  else  in  MI6.  But
Scorpia had gone one better.

They were asking him to kill his best friend.
“John  Rider…”  His  mouth  had  gone  dry.  “But

he’s—”

“Don’t  tell  us  that  he’s  dead,  Mr  Howell.  We

know he is not.”
“But why…?”
“You said you didn’t care what you did. This is
your assignment. If you want to prove yourself to
us, this is what you have to do.”

But could he do it? He asked himself again now,
watching  the  ancient  plane  as  it  completed  the
final  checks  before  take-off.  The  propellers  were
buzzing  loudly;  the  whole  fuselage  was  vibrating.
And it wasn’t just John. It was Helen Rider too. He
had once loved her – or thought he had. She had
rejected him. But John had always stood by him.
No. That wasn’t true. Blunt had axed him and John
had done nothing to help.

The  plane  jerked  forward  and  began  to  rumble

down the runway, picking up speed.

The  bomb  was  on  board.  Ash  had  no  idea  how
Scorpia  had  got  it  there,  or  even  how  they  had
found out about the flight in the first place. Such
details  didn’t  matter.  The  fact  was  that  it  was
there, and the cruelty of it was that Scorpia could
easily  have  detonated  it  without  his  help.  The
bomb  could  have  had  a  timer.  They  could  have
transmitted  the  signal  themselves.  But  they  had
turned this into the ultimate test. If he did this,
there would be no going back. He would be theirs
for life.

We will provide the manner of his death, but you

will be the one who pulls the trigger.

He couldn’t do it. They were his closest friends.

He was the godfather of their child.

He had to do it. John and Helen were dead any-

way. And Scorpia would kill him if he failed.

The plane was halfway down the runway. Slowly

it rose into the air.

Ash  took  out  his  mobile  phone  and  pressed  a

three-digit number, followed by SEND.

The  explosion  was  huge,  much  bigger  than  he
had  expected.  For  a  moment,  the  plane  disap-
peared  completely,  replaced  by  a  scarlet  fireball
that  hovered  fifteen  metres  above  the  runway.
There  were  no  wings,  no  propellers,  no  wheels.
Only flames. And then, like some hideous firework,
broken pieces of glass and metal burst out of the

inferno,  bouncing  off  the  tarmac  and  slamming
into the lawn. 

The plane had gone. There was nothing left of it.

The people inside would have died instantly.

Already alarms were sounding. Enderby and half
a dozen men were running towards the wreckage,
coming from every direction – as if there was any-
thing they could do. Black smoke billowed into the
sky.

Ash turned away and walked back inside. He was
sure that Scorpia would be watching. They would
know that he had done it. He had passed the test.
He took a deep breath and tasted smoke and burn-
ing aviation fuel.

A  new  life.  But  how  was  he  going  to  enjoy  it
when he was empty inside? Too late. He had made
his choice.

Slowly he made his way down the stairs and out
onto the runway, limping towards the flames that
for him would never die.

