ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Table of Contents 

 

Chapter 1 - FIRE STAR 

Chapter 2 - REFLECTIONS IN A MIRROR 

Chapter 3 - CARDS BEFORE MIDNIGHT 

Chapter 4 - OFF-ROAD VEHICLE 

Chapter 5 - DEATH AND CHAMPAGNE 

Chapter 6 - NINE FRAMES PER SECOND 

Chapter 7 - BAD NEWS 

Chapter 8 - THE LION‟S DEN 

Chapter 9 - INVISIBLE MAN 

Chapter 10 - GREENFIELDS 

Chapter 11 - CONDITION RED 

Chapter 12 - HELL ON EARTH 

Chapter 13 - EXIT STRATEGY 

Chapter 14 - FEELING THE HEAT 

Chapter 15 - Q & A 

Chapter 16 - SPECIAL DELIVERY 

Chapter 17 - A SHORT FLIGHT TO NOWHERE 

Chapter 18 - WOLF MOON 

Chapter 19 - ALL FOR CHARITY 

Chapter 20 - PURE TORTURE 

Chapter 21 - RAW DEAL 

Chapter 22 - MARGIN OF ERROR 

Chapter 23 - SIMBA DAM 

Chapter 24 - UNHAPPY LANDING 

Chapter 25 - SOFT CENTERS 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

1 

 

FIRE STAR 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

RAVI CHANDRA WAS GOING to be a rich man. 

It made his head spin to think about it. In the next few hours, he would earn more 

than he had managed in the last five years: a fantastic sum, paid in cash, right into 

his hands. It was the start of a new life. He would be able to buy his wife the 

clothes that she wanted, a car, a proper diamond ring to replace the band of cheap 

gold she had worn since they were married. He would take the boys, aged four and 

six, to Disneyland in California. And he would travel to London and see the Indian 

cricket team play at Lord‟s, something he had dreamed about all his life but had 

never thought possible. 

Until now. 

He sat hunched up beside the window of the bus that was taking him to work, as he 

had done every day for as long as he could remember. It was devilishly hot. The 

fans had broken down once again and of course the company was in no hurry to 

replace them. Worse still, this was the end of June, the time of the year known in 

southern India as Agni Nakshatram—or “Fire Star.” The sun was unforgiving. It 

was almost impossible to breathe. The damp heat clung to you from morning until 

night and the whole city stank. 

When he had money, he would move from this area. He would leave the cramped 

two-bedroom apartment in Mylapore, the busiest, most crowded part of the city, 

and go and live somewhere quieter and cooler with a little more space to stretch 

out. He would have a fridge full of beer and a big plasma TV. Really, it wasn‟t so 

much to ask. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The bus was slowing down. Ravi had done this journey so many times that he would 

have known where they were with his eyes closed. They had left the city behind 

them. In the distance there were hills—steep and covered, every inch of them, 

with thick, green vegetation. But the area he was in now was more like a wasteland, 

with just a few palm trees sprouting among the rubble and electricity pylons 

closing in on all sides. His place of work was just ahead. In a moment, they would 

stop at the first security gate. 

Ravi was an engineer. His identity badge with his photograph and his full name—

Ravindra Manpreet Chandra—described him as a Plant Operator. He worked at the 

Jowada nuclear power station just three miles north of Chennai, the fourth largest 

city in India, formerly known as Madras. 

He glanced up and there was the power station in front of him, a series of huge 

multicolored blocks securely locked inside miles and miles of wire. It sometimes 

occurred to him that wire defined Jowada. There was razor wire and barbed wire, 

wire fences and telephone lines. And of course, the electricity that they 

manufactured was carried all over India by thousands more miles of wire. How 

strange to think that when someone turned on their TV in Pondicherry or their 

bedside light in Nellore, it had all begun here. 

The bus stopped at the security point with its TV cameras and armed guards. 

Following the 9/11 attacks on New York and Washington, nuclear power plants all 

over the world had become recognized as potential terrorist targets. New barriers 

had been added. Security forces had been enlarged. For a long time it had all been 

an incredible nuisance, with people ready to jump on you if you so much as sneezed. 

But it had been many years since 9/11. People had become lazy. Take old Suresh, 

for example, the guard at this outer checkpoint. He recognized everyone on the 

bus. He saw them at the same time every day: in at half past seven, out at half past 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

five. Occasionally, he‟d bump into them while strolling past the shops on 

Rannganatha Street. He even knew their wives and girlfriends. It wouldn‟t have 

occurred to him to ask for ID or to check what they were carrying into Jowada. He 

waved the bus through. 

Two minutes later, Ravi got out. He was a short, skinny man with bad skin and a 

mustache that sat uncomfortably on his upper lip. He was already wearing overalls 

and protective steel-capped shoes. He was carrying a heavy toolbox. Nobody asked 

him why he had taken it home with him when normally he would have left it in his 

locker; nobody had cared. It was quite possible that he‟d had to fix something in 

the apartment where he lived. Maybe he‟d been moonlighting, carrying a few jobs 

out for the neighbors for a few extra rupees. 

The bus had come to a final halt beside a brick wall with a door that, like every 

door at Jowada, was made of solid steel, designed to hold back smoke, fire, or even 

a direct missile strike. Another guard and more television cameras watched as the 

passengers got out and went through. On the other side of the door, a blank, 

whitewashed corridor led to a locker room, which was one of the few places in the 

complex that wasn‟t air-conditioned. Ravi opened his locker (there was a pinup of 

the Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty stuck in the door) and took out a safety helmet, 

goggles, earplugs, and a fluorescent jacket. He also removed a bunch of keys. 

Nuclear power stations do not use swipe cards or electronic locks on the majority 

of their doors. This is another safety measure. Manual locks and keys will still 

operate in the event of a power failure. 

Still clutching his toolbox, Ravi set off down another corridor. When he had first 

come here, he had been amazed how clean everything was—especially when he 

compared it to the street where he lived, which was full of rubbish and potholes 

filled with muddy water and droppings from the oxen that lumbered along, pulling 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

wooden carts between the cars and the motorized rickshaws. He turned a corner 

and there was the next checkpoint, the final barrier he would have to pass through 

before he was actually in. 

For the first time, he was nervous. He knew what he was carrying. He remembered 

what he was about to do. What would happen if he were stopped? He would go to 

prison, perhaps for the rest of his life. He had heard stories about Chennai Central 

Jail, about inmates buried in tiny cells far underground and food so disgusting that 

some preferred to starve to death. But it was too late to back out now. If he 

hesitated or did anything suspicious, that was one sure way to get stopped. 

He came to a massive turnstile with bars as thick as baseball bats. It allowed only 

one person in at a time, and then you had to shuffle through as if you were being 

processed, as if you were some sort of factory machine. There was also an X-ray 

scanner, a metal detector, and yet more guards. 

“Hey—Ravi!” 

“Ramesh, my friend. You see the cricket last night?” 

“I saw it. What a game!” 

Soccer, cricket, tennis . . . whatever. Sports were their currency. Every day, the 

plant operators passed it between them, and Ravi had deliberately watched 

Wimbledon the night before so that he could join in the conversation. Even in the 

cool of the corridor, he was sweating. He could feel the perspiration beading on his 

forehead and he wiped it away with the back of his hand. Surely someone would 

stop him and ask him why he was still holding on to his toolbox. Everyone knew the 

correct procedure. It should be opened and searched, all the contents taken out. 

But it didn‟t happen. A moment later, he was through. Nobody had so much as 

questioned him. It had gone just as he thought it would. Knew it would. Nobody had 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

lifted off the top tray of the toolbox and discovered the twenty pounds of C4 

plastic explosive concealed underneath. 

Ravi walked away from the barrier and stopped in front of a row of shelves. He 

pulled out a small plastic device that looked like a pager. This was his EPD—or 

Electronic Personal Dosimeter. It would record his own radiation level and warn him 

if he came into contact with any radioactive material. It had already been set with 

his personal ID and security clearance. There were four levels of security at 

Jowada, each one allowing access to areas with different risks of contamination. 

Just for once, Ravi‟s EPD had been set to the highest level. Today he was going to 

enter the heart of the power station, the reactor chamber itself. 

This was where the deadly flame of Jowada burned. Sixty thousand uranium fuel 

rods, each one 3.85 meters long, bound together inside the pressure vessel that 

was the reactor itself. Every minute of the day and night, twenty thousand tons of 

fresh water were sent rushing through pipes both to cool the beast and to tame it. 

The resulting steam—two tons of it every second—powered the turbines. The 

turbines produced electricity. That was how it worked. In many ways it was very 

simple. 

A nuclear reactor is at once the safest and the most dangerous place on the planet. 

An accident might have such nightmarish consequences that there can be no 

accident. The reactor chamber at Jowada was made out of steel-reinforced 

concrete. The walls were five feet thick. The great dome, stretching out over the 

whole thing, was the height and breadth of a major cathedral. In the event of a 

malfunction, the reactor could be turned off in seconds. And whatever happened in 

this room would be contained. Nothing could be allowed to leak through to the 

outside world. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

A thousand safeguards had been built into the construction and the running of 

Jowada. One man with a dream of watching cricket in London was about to blow 

them apart. 

The approach had come six weeks before at the street corner closest to his 

apartment: two men, one a European, the other from Delhi. It turned out that the 

second man, the one from Delhi, was a friend of Ravi‟s cousin Jagdish, who worked 

in the kitchen of a five-star hotel. Once they had recognized each other, it seemed 

only natural to go for tea and samosas . . . particularly as the European was paying. 

“How much do they pay you at Jowada?” The European knew the answer without 

having to ask. “Only fifteen thousand rupees a month, yes? A child couldn‟t live on 

that amount, and you have a wife and a family. These people! They cheat the honest 

worker. Maybe it‟s time they were taught a lesson. . . .” 

Very quickly the conversation was steered the way the two men wanted it to go, 

and that first time, they‟d left him with a gift, a fake Rolex watch. And why not? 

Jagdish had done them favors in the past, giving them free food that he had stolen 

from the kitchen. Now it was their turn to look after Ravi. The next time they met, 

a week later, it was an iPhone—the real thing. But the gifts were only a glimpse of 

all the riches that could be his if he would just agree to undertake a piece of 

business on their behalf. It was dangerous. A few people might be hurt. “But for 

you, my friend, it will mean a new life. Everything you ever wanted can be yours. . . 

.” 

Ravi Chandra entered the reactor chamber of the Jowada nuclear power station at 

exactly eight o‟clock. 

Four other engineers went in with him. They had to go in one at a time through an 

air lock—a white, circular corridor with an automatic sliding door at each end. In 

many ways it looked like something out of a space-ship, and its purpose was much 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

the same. The exit wouldn‟t open until the entrance had closed. It was all part of 

the need for total containment. The five men were dressed identically, with safety 

helmets and goggles. All of them were carrying toolboxes. For the rest of the day 

they would carry out a series of tasks, some of them as ordinary as oiling a valve or 

changing a lightbulb. Even the most advanced technology needs occasional 

maintenance. 

As they emerged from the air lock into the reactor chamber, they seemed almost 

to vanish, so tiny were they in these vast surroundings, dwarfed by the gantries 

and walkways—bright yellow—overhead, by electric hoists and cables, soaring banks 

of machinery, fuel rod transportation canisters, generators. Arc lamps shone down 

from the edges of the dome, and in the middle of it all, surrounded by ladders and 

platforms, what looked like an empty swimming pool plunged twelve yards down, 

with stainless steel plates on all four sides. This was the reactor. Underneath a 

150-ton steel cap, millions of uranium atoms were splitting again and again, 

producing unimaginable heat. 

Four metal towers stood guard in the chamber. If they were shaped a little like 

rockets, they were rockets that would never fly. Each one was locked in its own 

steel cage and connected to the rest of the machinery by a network of massive 

pipes. These were the reactor coolant pumps, keeping the water rushing around on 

its vital journey. Inside each metal casing, a 50-ton motor was spinning at the rate 

of 1,500 revs per minute. 

The pumps were labeled north, south, east, and west. The south pump was going to 

be Ravi‟s primary target. 

But first of all he crossed to the other side of the reactor chamber, to a door 

marked EMERGENCY EXIT ONLY. The two men had explained everything very 

carefully to him. There was no point attacking the reactor cap. Nothing could 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

penetrate it. Nor was there any point in sabotaging the reactor chamber, not while 

it was locked down. Any blast, any radiation leak would be contained. To achieve 

their aims, an exit had to be found. The power of the nuclear reactor had to be set 

free. 

And there it was on the blueprint they had shown him. The emergency air lock was 

the Achilles‟ heel in the fortification of Jowada. It should never have been built. 

There was no need for it and it had never been used. The idea of a passageway 

between the reactor chamber and the back of the turbine hall, where it opened 

onto a patch of wasteland close to the perimeter fence, was to reassure workers 

that there was a fast way out should one ever be needed. But what it also provided 

was a single pathway from the reactor to the outside world. It was, in one sense, 

the barrel of a gun. All it needed was to be unblocked. 

Nobody noticed Ravi as he strolled over to the emergency door, and even if they 

had, they wouldn‟t have remarked on it. Everyone had their own worksheet. They 

would assume he was just following his. He opened the inner door—a solid metal 

plate—and let himself into the corridor. This was identical to the one he had used 

to enter, the same size and shape as a passageway in an underground train 

station—only without the advertisements. About halfway along, there was a control 

panel fixed high up in the wall. Standing on tiptoe, Ravi unscrewed it, using one of 

the few real tools he had brought with him. Inside, there was a complicated mass 

of circuitry, but he knew exactly what to do. He cut two wires, took one of them, 

and attached it to a third. It was quite easy, really. The exit door slid open in front 

of him, revealing a patch of blue sky on the other side of another wire fence. He 

felt the sluggish air roll in. Somewhere, perhaps in the control room, someone 

would notice what had happened. Even now a light might be blinking on one of the 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

consoles. But it would take a while before anyone came to investigate and by then it 

would be too late. 

Ravi went back into the reactor chamber and over to the nearest of the four 

reactor coolant pumps. This was the only way that wide-scale sabotage was 

possible. What he was aiming for was known in the nuclear industry as a LOCA—a 

Loss of Coolant Accident. It was a LOCA that had caused the catastrophe at 

Chernobyl in the former Soviet Union and had almost done the same at Three Mile 

Island in Pennsylvania. The pump was locked in its cage, but Ravi had the key. That 

was one of the reasons he had been chosen for this job. The right man in the right 

place. 

He stopped in front of the cylindrical wall, which rose more than sixty feet into 

the air. He could hear the machinery inside. The noise was constant and deafening. 

His mouth was dry now, thinking about what he was about to do. Was he insane? 

Suppose they traced this back to him? But then his mind drifted to all that money, 

to his wife, to the life they could finally lead. His family was not in Chennai today. 

He had sent them to friends in Bangalore. They would be safe. He was doing this 

for them. He had to do this for them. 

For a few brief seconds greed and fear hung in the balance, and then the scale 

tipped. He knelt down and placed the toolbox against the metal casing, opened it 

and removed the top shelf. The inside was almost filled with the bulk of the plastic 

explosive, yet there was just enough room for a digital display showing ten minutes, 

a tangle of wires, and a switch. 

Ten minutes. That would be more than enough time to leave the chamber before 

the bomb went off. If anyone questioned him, he would say he needed to use the 

toilet. He would exit the same way he had come in, and once he was on the other 

side of the air lock, he would be safe. After the blast, there would be panic, 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

alarms, a well-rehearsed evacuation, radiation suits for everyone. He would simply 

join the crowds and make his way out. They would never be able to trace the bomb 

to him. There wouldn‟t be any evidence at all. 

People might die. People he knew. Could he really do this? 

The switch was right there in front of him. So small. All he had to do was flick it 

and the countdown would begin. 

Ravi Chandra took a deep breath. He reached out with a single finger. He pressed 

the switch. 

It was the last thing he did in his life. The men from the street corner had lied to 

him. There was no ten-minute delay. When he activated the bomb, it went off 

immediately, almost vaporizing him. Ravi was dead so quickly that he never even 

knew that he had been betrayed, that his wife was now a widow and that his 

children would never meet Mickey Mouse. Nor did he see the effect of what he 

had done. 

Exactly as planned, the bomb tore a hole in the side of the coolant pump, smashing 

the rotors. There was a hideous metallic grinding as the entire thing tore itself 

apart. One of the other plant operators—the same man who had been chatting 

about cricket just a few minutes ago—was killed instantly, thrown off his feet and 

into the reactor pit. The other engineers in the chamber froze, their eyes filled 

with horror as they saw what was happening, then scattered, diving for cover. They 

were too late. There was another explosion and suddenly the air was filled with 

shrapnel, spinning fragments of metal and machinery that had been turned into 

vicious missiles. The two closest men were cut to pieces. The others turned to run 

for the air lock. 

None of them made it. Alarms were already sounding, lights flashing, and as the 

machinery disintegrated, it seemed that everything in the chamber had been 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

slowed down, turned into a black-and-red hell. A cable whipped down, trailing 

sparks. There were three more explosions, pipes wrenching themselves free, 

fireballs spinning outward, and then a roar as burning steam came rushing out like 

an express train, filling the chamber. The worst had happened. Jagged knives of 

broken metal had smashed open the pipes, and although the reactor was already 

closing down, there were still several tons of radioactive steam with nowhere to go. 

One man was caught in the full blast and disappeared with a single hideous scream. 

The steam thundered out, filling the entire chamber. Normally, the walls and the 

dome would have contained it. But Ravi Chandra, in almost the last act of his life, 

had opened the emergency air lock. Like some alien stampede, the steam found it 

and rushed through, out into the open air. All over the Jowada power station, 

systems were being shut down, corridors emptied, safety measures put into place. 

But it was already too late. 

The people of Chennai saw a huge plume of white smoke rise up into the air. They 

heard the alarms. Already, workers at Jowada were calling their relatives in the 

city, warning them to get out. The panic began at once. More than a million men, 

women, and children dropped what they were doing and tried to find a way through 

traffic that had come to a complete standstill. Fights broke out. There were 

collisions and smashups at a dozen different junctions and traffic lights. But it had 

all happened too quickly, and not a single person would have actually made it out of 

the city before the radioactive cloud, blown by a southerly wind, fell onto them. 

The story appeared that night on television news all around the world. 

It was estimated that at least a hundred people died in the one hour following the 

explosion. Of course, there had been casualties within the Jowada power station 

itself, but far more people were killed in the madness to get out of Chennai. By the 

following morning, the newspaper headlines were calling it “A NUCLEAR 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

NIGHTMARE”—in capital letters, of course. The Indian authorities were adamant 

that the steam cloud would have contained only low-level radiation and that there 

was no need for panic, but there were just as many experts who disagreed. 

Twenty-four hours later, an appeal was made to help the people of Chennai. Further 

casualties were being reported. Homes and shops had been looted. There were still 

riots in the streets and the army had been called in to restore order. The hospitals 

were full of desperate people. One British charity—it called itself First Aid—came 

forward with a comprehensive plan to distribute food, blankets, and, most 

important of all, potassium iodate tablets for every one of the eight million people 

of Chennai to counter possible radiation sickness. 

As always, the world‟s people were unfailing in their generosity, and by the end of 

the week First Aid had raised over two million dollars. 

Of course, if the disaster had been any greater, they would have raised much, 

much more. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

2 

 

REFLECTIONS IN A MIRROR 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

ALEX RIDER TOOK ONE last glance in the mirror, then stopped and looked a 

second time. It was strange, but he wondered if he recognized the boy who was 

looking back. There were the thin lips, the slightly chiseled nose and chin, the light 

brown hair hanging in two strands over the very dark brown eyes. He raised a hand 

and, obediently, his reflection did the same. But there was something different 

about this other Alex Rider. It wasn‟t quite him. 

Of course, the clothes he was wearing didn‟t help. In a few minutes, he would be 

leaving for a New Year‟s Eve party being held at a castle on the banks of Loch 

Arkaig in the Highlands of Scotland—and the invitation had been clear. Dress: 

black tie. Reluctantly, Alex had gone out and rented the entire outfit . . . dinner 

jacket, black trousers, and a white shirt with a wing collar that was too tight and 

squeezed his neck. The one thing he had refused to do was put on the polished 

leather shoes that the shopkeeper had insisted would make the outfit complete. 

Black sneakers would have to do. What did it all make him look like? he wondered as 

he straightened the bow tie for the tenth time. A young James Bond. He hated the 

comparison, but he couldn‟t avoid it. 

It wasn‟t just the clothes. As Alex continued his examination, he had to admit that 

so much had happened in the last year that he‟d almost lost track of who—and 

what—he was. Standing in front of the mirror, it was as if he had just stepped 

down from the merry-go-round that his life had become. He might be still, but the 

world around him was spinning. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Just two months ago, he had been in Australia . . . not on vacation, not visiting 

relatives, but, incredibly, working for the Australian Secret Intelligence Service, 

disguised as an Afghan refugee. He had been sent to infiltrate the people-

smuggling gang known as the snakehead, yet his mission had taken him much 

further than that, setting him against Major Winston Yu and the potential 

devastation of a huge bomb buried deep beneath a fault line in the earth‟s crust. It 

had also brought him face-to-face with his godfather, the man he had known only 

as Ash. Thinking about him now, Alex saw something spark in his eyes. Was it 

anger? Grief? Alex had never known his parents, and he‟d thought Ash would 

somehow be able to explain where he‟d come from, to make sense of his past. But 

his godfather had done nothing of the sort, and their meeting had led only to 

betrayal and death. 

And that was really it, wasn‟t it? That was what the boy in the mirror was trying to 

tell him. He was still only fourteen years old, but the last year—a year whose end 

they were about to celebrate—had almost destroyed him. If he closed his eyes, he 

could still feel Major Yu‟s walking stick smashing into the side of his head, the 

crushing weight of the water under the Bora Falls, the punishment he had taken in 

the Thai boxing ring in Bangkok. And those were just the most recent in a string of 

injuries. How many times had he been punched, kicked, beaten, knocked out? And 

shot. His wounds might have healed, but he would still be reminded of them every 

time he undressed for bed. The scar left by the .22 bullet fired into his chest by a 

sniper on a rooftop on Liverpool Street would always be with him. Along with the 

memory of pain. They say that never leaves you either. 

Had it changed him? Of course it had. Nobody could come through what he had and 

stay the same. And yet . . . 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Alex! Stop admiring yourself in the mirror and get downstairs.” It was Sabina. 

Alex turned and saw her standing in the doorway, wearing a silver dress with lots 

of glitter around the collar. Her dark hair—she had grown it long—was tied back. 

Unusually for her, she was wearing makeup: pale blue eye shadow and pink, glossy 

lipstick. “Dad‟s waiting. We‟re about to leave.” 

“I‟ll just be one minute.” 

Alex twisted the bow tie again, wondering what he had to do to stop the darn thing 

from going crooked. He looked ridiculous. Nobody under the age of fifty should 

have to dress like this. But at least he‟d been able to resist Sabina‟s suggestion 

that he should go to the party dressed in a kilt. She‟d been teasing him about it 

since Christmas. 

Despite everything, the last six weeks had been fantastic for Alex Rider. First of 

all, Sabina and her parents had unexpectedly arrived in England. Edward Pleasure 

was a journalist. He had almost been killed once, investigating the pop singer 

Damian Cray. Alex had blamed himself for that, and when, at the end of it all, 

Sabina had left for America, he had been certain he would never see her again. But 

now she was back in his life, and although she was a year older than him, the two 

had never been closer. It helped perhaps that she was one of the few people who 

knew about his involvement with MI6. 

Better still, the Pleasures had invited Alex to join them for the New Year at the 

house they had rented in the West Highlands of Scotland. Hawk‟s Lodge was a 

Victorian pile that had been named after an obscure poet rather than the bird. It 

stood, three stories high, on the edge of woodland with Ben Nevis in the 

background. It was the sort of house that needed roaring log fires, hot chocolate, 

old-fashioned board games, and too much to eat. Liz Pleasure, Sabina‟s mother, had 

supplied all of this and more from the moment they had arrived. In the past few 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

days, the four of them had gone hiking and fishing. They had visited ruined castles 

and isolated villages and strolled along the famous white sands of Morar. Sabina 

had hoped it might snow—there was good skiing over at Avi emore and she had 

brought her gear with her—but although it was freezing outside, so far the 

weather had only managed a few flurries. There was no television in the house, and 

Edward had banned Sabina from bringing her Nintendo DS, so they had spent the 

evenings playing Scrabble or Perudo, the Peruvian game of liar dice, which Alex 

nearly always won. If there was one thing he had learned in his life, it was certainly 

how to lie. 

Meanwhile, Jack Starbright, Alex‟s housekeeper and in some ways still his closest 

friend, was in Washington, D.C. She had been invited to Scotland too, but had 

decided to go home for New Year with her parents. Following her out of the house, 

it had crossed Alex‟s mind that one day she would go back to America for good. All 

her friends and family were there. He wondered what would happen to him if she 

did. She had looked after him since his uncle had died, and as far as he knew, there 

was nobody to take her place. 

As if reading his thoughts, she had given him a hug while the taxi driver loaded up 

her suitcases. 

“Don‟t worry, Alex. I‟ll see you in ten days. Just try and have a good time in 

Scotland. See if you can get past New Year without getting into trouble. Don‟t 

forget, school starts on the sixth.” 

And that was another reason to be cheerful. Alex had managed to complete an 

entire half term at Brookland without getting kidnapped, shot at, or recruited by 

one of the world‟s security agencies. He had begun to feel like an ordinary 

schoolboy again, getting told off for talking in class, sweating over his homework, 

listening for the bell that meant the end of day. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He took one last look in the mirror. Jack was right. Forget all this spy stuff. He‟d 

had enough of all that. He was leaving it behind. 

He went down two flights of stairs to the hall with its wood panels and rather 

gloomy paintings of Scottish wildlife. Edward Pleasure was waiting with Sabina. It 

seemed to Alex that the journalist had grown quite a lot older since they had last 

met. There were definitely more lines in his face, he now wore glasses all the time, 

and he had lost a lot of weight. He also limped, supporting himself with a heavy 

walking stick, metal tipped and with a metal handle shaped like a duck‟s head. His 

wife had bought it for him in an antiques shop in London. She had joked that if any 

of the people he wrote about ever tried to attack him, at least he‟d have something 

he could use to defend himself. 

The journalist had put on his own black tie for the evening, but Alex saw at once 

from his expression that something was wrong. 

“What is it?” Alex asked Sabina. 

“Mum‟s not coming,” Sabina replied. She was looking glum. All her enthusiasm for 

the party had drained away. 

“She says she‟s not feeling up to it,” Edward explained. “It‟s nothing serious. She‟s 

just got a bit of the flu . . .” 

“Then I think we should all stay,” Sabina said. 

“That‟s nonsense, Sabina. The three of you go and enjoy yourselves.” Liz Pleasure 

had appeared at one of the doorways. She was a pleasant, easygoing woman with 

long, straggly hair. She didn‟t care how she looked and she liked to run a house 

without rules. Right now she was wearing a baggy jersey and jeans, holding a box of 

tissues. “I don‟t much like parties anyway, and I‟m certainly not going out in this 

weather.” 

“But you don‟t want to be here for New Year on your own.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I‟m going to have a hot bath with some of that expensive oil your dad bought me 

for Christmas. Then I‟m going to bed. I‟ll be asleep long before midnight.” She went 

over to Sabina and put her arm around her. “Honestly, Sab, it doesn‟t bother me. 

We can celebrate New Year tomorrow and you can tell me what I missed.” 

“I don‟t even want to go to this stupid party!” 

“That‟s not true. You love parties. And you look terrific . . . both of you.” 

“But Mum . . .” 

“You have to go. Your dad‟s got the tickets and they cost a fortune.” She beamed 

at Alex. “You look after her, Alex. And remember: This is a party in a real Scottish 

castle. I‟m sure you‟re going to have a fantastic time.” 

There was no point in any further argument, and twenty minutes later, Alex found 

himself being driven along the twisting roads that led north to Loch Arkaig. The 

weather had turned worse. The snow that Sabina had been hoping for was falling 

more heavily, swirling in front of the headlights as they cut through the night. 

Edward Pleasure was driving a Nissan X-Trail that he had rented at Inverness 

Airport. Alex was glad he had chosen a four-by-four. The snow was already 

settling. Any thicker and they would need the extra traction. 

Sabina was stretched out in the back, untangling her iPod. Alex was in the front. It 

was the first time he had been alone with Edward Pleasure since the south of 

France, and he felt a little uncomfortable. The journalist must have known about 

his involvement with MI6. Sabina would have told him everything that had 

happened. But the two of them had never discussed it, as if it was somehow 

impolite. 

“It‟s good to have you with us, Alex,” Edward muttered. He was deliberately 

keeping his voice down so that Sabina, plugged into Coldplay, wouldn‟t hear. “I know 

Sab was really glad you could tag along.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I‟ve had a great time,” Alex said. He thought for a moment, then added, “I‟m not 

sure about tonight, though.” 

Edward smiled. “We don‟t have to stay too long if you don‟t want to. But what Liz 

said was right. Nobody celebrates New Year like the Scottish. And Kilmore Castle 

is quite a place. Dates back to the thirteenth century. It was torn down in the 

Jacobite rising and stayed more or less in ruins until it was bought by Desmond 

McCain.” 

“Isn‟t he the man you‟re writing about?” 

“That‟s right. He‟s the main reason we‟re going. The Reverend Desmond McCain.” 

Edward reached down and flicked a switch, blowing hot air over the window. The 

windshield wipers were doing their best, but snow was still sticking to the glass. It 

was warm and cozy inside the car, in marked contrast with the world outside. “He‟s 

an interesting man, Alex. Do you want to hear about him?” 

“Absolutely.” 

“Well, you‟ve probably read a bit about him in the papers. He was brought up in an 

orphanage in east London. No parents. No family. Nothing. He‟d been abandoned in a 

shopping cart, wrapped in a plastic bag . . . McCain Frozen Fries. That‟s how he got 

his name. He was fostered by a couple in Hackney, and from that moment things 

started going better for him. He did well at school . . . particularly at sports. By 

the time he was eighteen, he had become a famous boxer. He won the WBO world 

middleweight title twice, and everyone thought he‟d make it a hat trick before he 

got knocked out in the first round by Buddy Sangster in Madison Square Garden in 

1983.” 

“What happened to Buddy Sangster?” Alex asked. He‟d heard the name somewhere 

before. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“It‟s funny you should ask. He died a year later. He fell under a train in the New 

York subway. They showed his funeral on TV. One of his fans even sent a hundred 

black tulips to the funeral. I remember hearing that . . .” Edward shook his head. 

“Anyway, Desmond McCain wasn‟t boxing anymore. His jaw had been smashed up 

pretty badly. He went to some plastic surgeon in Las Vegas, but it was a botch job 

and it never healed properly. To this day he eats only soft food. He can‟t chew. But 

it wasn‟t the end of his career. He went into business . . . property development, 

and he was very good at it. There were a dozen tenants in Rotherhithe, down on the 

River Thames, and somehow he persuaded them to sell cheaply to him, and then he 

knocked down their houses and put up a bunch of skyscrapers and made a fortune. 

“That was about the time that he became interested in politics. He‟d given 

thousands of dollars to the Conservative party, and suddenly he announced he 

wanted to be a member of Parliament. Of course, they welcomed him with open 

arms. He was rich, he was successful—and he was black. That was part of it too. 

And the next thing you know, he managed to get himself elected in a corner of 

London that hadn‟t voted Conservative since the nineteenth century, and even then 

it had only been by mistake. People liked him. It was the typical rags-to-riches 

story . . . you could say plastic bag to riches in his case. He got a big majority, and a 

year later he was a minister in the department of sport. There was even talk that 

he could become our first black prime minister.” 

“So what went wrong?” 

Edward sighed. “Everything! It turned out that his business hadn‟t been going as 

well as people thought. One or two of his developments had fallen behind schedule, 

and he had huge financial problems. The bank was closing in and it looked as if he 

might go bankrupt . . . and of course you‟re not allowed to be a member of 

Parliament if that happens. Too unsightly for their taste. God knows what he was 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

thinking, but he decided to set fire to one of his properties and claim the 

insurance. That was his way out of the mess. Well, the property in question was a 

twenty-four-story office building overlooking St. Paul‟s, and one night it simply 

burned to the ground. The next day, McCain put in a claim for fifty million dollars. 

Problem solved.” 

They came to a sharp bend in the road and Edward Pleasure slowed down. By now 

the whole road was snow covered, with dark pine trees looming up on both sides. 

“At least that‟s what he thought,” he went on. “Unfortunately for him, the 

insurance company smelled a rat. They started asking questions. Like, for example, 

why had the alarms been switched off? Why had the security staff been given the 

night off? There was a lot of gossip in the press—and then, suddenly, a witness 

turned up. It turned out there‟d been a homeless person sleeping in the 

underground garage. He‟d actually been there when McCain drove in with six gallons 

of gasoline and a cigarette lighter. He‟d been lucky to get away alive. Anyway, 

McCain was arrested. There was a fairly sensational trial. He was sent to prison for 

nine years.” 

Alex had listened to all this in silence. “You called him Reverend McCain,” he said. 

“Well, that‟s the strange thing. In a way, McCain‟s whole life had been bizarre—but 

while he was in jail, he converted to Christianity. He did a correspondence course 

and became a priest in some church no one‟s ever heard of. And when he got out—

that was five years ago—he didn‟t go back into business or politics. He said he‟d 

spent his whole life being selfish and that he wanted to put all that behind him. 

Instead, he set up a charity. First Aid. That‟s what it‟s called. It provides a rapid 

response to emergencies all over the world.” 

“How much farther?” Sabina‟s voice came from the backseat. She was still plugged 

into her earphones. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Edward Pleasure held up a hand and opened it twice, signaling ten minutes. 

“You interviewed him,” Alex said. 

“Yes. I‟ve done a big piece for Vanity Fair. They‟ll be publishing it next month.” 

“And?” 

“You‟ll meet him tonight, Alex, and you can see for yourself. He‟s got an enormous 

amount of energy and he‟s channeled it into helping people less fortunate than 

himself. He‟s raised millions for famine relief in Africa, bush fires in Australia, 

floods in Malaysia . . . even that accident in southern India. Jowada . . .” 

Alex nodded. He‟d read about it when he‟d been working as a ball boy at 

Wimbledon. It had made the front pages. “The nuclear reactor . . . ,” he said. 

Edward nodded. “For a time it looked as if the whole city of Chennai could have 

been affected. Fortunately, it wasn‟t as bad as that, but a lot of people were killed 

in the panic. First Aid was up and running the very next day, getting antiradiation 

stuff to the women and kids, helping with supplies . . . that sort of thing. Nobody 

was quite sure how they got off the mark so quickly, but that‟s how they work. 

Instant response. Their aim is to be the first charity in.” 

“And you really think this man, McCain, is genuine? That he‟s turned a new leaf?” 

“You mean . . . do I think he‟s another Damian Cray?” Edward smiled briefly. It had 

been his article exposing Cray as a maniac that had almost got him killed. “Well, I 

did have my doubts when I first met him. I mean, even if he wasn‟t a crook, he was 

a politician, which didn‟t exactly recommend him. But you don‟t need to worry, Alex. 

I did plenty of research into his charity. I interviewed him and a lot of people who 

know him. I spoke to the police and I opened many old files. The truth is, other 

than his past, I couldn‟t find anything bad to write about him. He really does seem 

to be a rich man who made a bad mistake and who‟s trying to make up for it.” 

“How has he managed to buy a castle? If he went bankrupt . . .” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“That‟s a good question. After he went to prison, he lost all his money . . . 

everything. But he had powerful friends—both in business and in politics—and they 

did what they could to help him out. Thanks to them, he managed to hang on to 

Kilmore Castle. He also has a London apartment, and he‟s the part owner of a safari 

camp somewhere in Kenya.” A car suddenly appeared in the road beside them, 

overtaking. Edward slowed down to let it pass. He watched as it was swallowed up 

by the whirling snow. “I‟ll be interested to hear what you think of McCain,” he 

muttered. 

“Is that why you‟re going?” 

“When I met him, I mentioned I was planning to be in Scotland for the New Year, 

and he invited me. He gave me the tickets, which is just as well, since they cost one 

thousand dollars each.” 

Alex let out a low whistle. 

“Well, it‟s for charity. All the profits will go to First Aid. There‟ll be a lot of rich 

people there tonight. They‟ll raise a fortune.” 

There was another brief silence. The road had begun to climb steeply uphill, and 

Edward shifted down a gear. 

“We never really talked about Damian Cray,” Edward muttered. 

Alex twisted in his seat. “There‟s nothing to say.” 

“My book about him sold a million copies. But I never mentioned you, or your part in 

what happened.” 

“I prefer it that way.” 

“You saved Sabina‟s life.” 

“She saved mine.” 

“Can I give you some advice, Alex?” Edward Pleasure had to keep his eyes on the 

road, yet just for a moment he turned them on Alex. “Stay away from all that. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

MI6, intelligence, all the rest of it. I‟ve got a good idea what‟s been going on over 

the past year. Sabina‟s told me some of it, but I have contacts in the CIA and I 

hear things. I don‟t want to know what you‟ve been through, but believe me, you‟re 

better off out of it.” 

“Don‟t worry.” Alex remembered what he‟d been thinking back at Hawk‟s Lodge. “I 

don‟t think MI6 are interested in me anymore. They didn‟t even send me a 

Christmas card. That part of my life is over. And I‟m glad.” 

The road was even steeper now, and the trees had fallen away on one side to reveal 

an expanse of black water, Loch Arkaig, stretching out below. It was still snowing, 

but the flakes didn‟t seem to be making contact with the half-frozen surface, as if 

the two were somehow canceling each other out. The loch was said to have its own 

monster—a giant water horse—and looking down, Alex could well believe it. Loch 

Arkaig had been left behind by the glaciers. Twelve miles long and in places three 

hundred feet deep, who could say what secrets it had managed to keep to itself 

for the past five million years? 

And there was Kilmore Castle looming up above him, almost invisible behind the 

sweeping snow. It had been built on a rocky outcrop, above the loch, completely 

dominating the surrounding landscape, a massive pile of gray stone with towers and 

battlements, narrow, slit-like windows, soaring archways, and solid, unwelcoming 

doors. There was nothing about the place that could have been built for comfort. 

It existed only to rule and to keep those inside it in power. It was hard to imagine 

how it had ever fallen or, for that matter, how it had been built. Even the Nissan 

X-Trail, with its 2.5-liter four-cylinder turbo diesel engine, seemed to be 

struggling as it negotiated the series of tight hairpin bends that were the only way 

up. Had soldiers once come here on horseback? What medieval weapons could 

possibly have penetrated these massive walls? 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

They were in a line of traffic now with other partygo ers, just visible behind the 

frosted windows of their cars. The last bend brought them to a wide-open space 

that had been converted into a parking lot with attendants in Day-Glo jackets 

frantically signaling where to go. Two fiery torches had been placed on either side 

of the main entrance, the flames fighting the snow. Men and women in heavy coats, 

their faces lost behind scarves, were hurrying across the gravel and bundling 

themselves in. There was something almost nightmarish about the scene. It didn‟t 

look like a party. These people could have been refugees running for their lives 

from some freak act of nature. All the while dressed to kill. 

Edward Pleasure parked the car and Sabina took off her iPod. 

“We don‟t have to stay until midnight,” Edward told her. “If you want to leave 

earlier, just let me know.” 

“I wish Mum had come,” Sabina muttered. 

“Me too. But let‟s try and enjoy ourselves.” 

They got out of the car, and after the warmth of the interior, Alex was 

immediately hit by the deep chill of the night, the snow dancing in his eyes, the 

wind rushing through his hair. He had no coat and ran forward, hugging himself, 

using his shoulders to battle through the elements. It was as if the very worst of 

the winter had somehow been concentrated on this rocky platform, high above the 

loch. The flames of the fiery torches writhed and twisted. Somebody shouted 

something, but the words were snatched away. 

And then they had reached the archway and passed through into an inner 

courtyard, where at least the wind couldn‟t penetrate. Alex found himself in an 

irregularly shaped space with high walls, cannons, a lawn under two inches of snow, 

and a huge bonfire. About a dozen guests were crowding around, feeling the 

warmth, and laughing as they brushed snow off their sleeves. A second archway 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

stood ahead of him, this one with carved eagles and an inscription in Gaelic, the 

letters glowing red and shimmering in the light of the fire. 

  

“What‟s that?” Sabina asked. 

 

Edward shrugged, but next to him one of the other guests had overheard. “It‟s the 

motto of the Kilmore clan,” he explained. “This was their ancestral home. They 

were here for three hundred years.” 

“Do you know what it means?” 

“Yes. „You cannot defeat your enemies until you know who they are.‟ ” The guest 

pushed forward and disappeared into the castle. 

Alex looked at the inscription for a moment. He wondered if in some way it wasn‟t 

speaking to him. Then he dismissed the thought. A New Year was about to begin 

and with it a new set of rules. There were no more enemies. That was what he had 

decided. 

“Come on, Alex . . .” 

Sabina grabbed his arm and together they went in. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

3 

 

CARDS BEFORE MIDNIGHT 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

ALEX HAD NEVER BEEN to a party like it. 

The banqueting hall at Kilmore Castle was huge, but even so, it was jammed with 

people: five or six hundred of them had been invited and this wasn‟t an invitation 

anyone was going to turn down, even if it came with a thousand-dollar price tag. 

Within minutes, Alex had recognized half a dozen TV celebrities and soap stars, a 

clutch of politicians, two celebrity chefs, and a pop star. The men were in black tie 

or kilts. The women had fought to outdo each other with yards of silk and velvet, 

plunging necklines, and a dazzling assortment of diamonds and jewels. 

A whole army of waiters in full Scottish dress were fighting their way through the 

crowd carrying trays of vintage champagne while a trio of bagpipe players 

performed on a gallery above. There were no electric lights. More than a hundred 

candles flickered in two massive chandeliers. Torches blazed from iron braziers 

mounted in the walls. The center of the room was dominated by a massive stone 

fireplace with flames leaping up the chimney and throwing red shadows across the 

flagstone floor. 

The Kilmores hadn‟t lived at the castle for centuries, but they were certainly there 

tonight. Life-size portraits hung on the walls . . . grim-looking men with swords and 

shields, proud-eyed women in tartan and bonnets. Suits of armor had been placed in 

many of the alcoves, and crossed swords stood guard over every archway and door. 

The animals they had killed—stags, foxes, wild boar—looked down on the scene 

with their disembodied heads and glass eyes. Coats of arms dotted the walls, the 

fireplace, even the windows. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Desmond McCain must have spent a fortune on the party, ensuring that at the very 

least his guests would get value for their money. A buffet table reached from one 

end of the hall to the other, piled high with great slabs of beef and salads, whole 

salmon, venison, and—on a giant silver platter—a roast suckling pig complete with 

angry eyes and an apple in its mouth. There were dozens of different wines and 

spirits, punch bowls, and as many as fifty brands of malt whisky in bottles of 

various shapes. One archway led to a dance floor, another to a fully equipped casino 

with roulette, blackjack, and poker. Somehow, McCain had managed to park a 

brand-new Mini Convertible in the hallway. It was the first prize in a raffle that 

also included a Kawasaki 260X Jet Ski and a two-week Caribbean cruise—all of 

them had been given free to First Aid by wealthy sponsors. 

Outside, the snow was still falling. The wind was cutting through the night like a 

scalpel. But all that was forgotten as, inside, the guests enjoyed the warmth of 

each other‟s company and the spirit of the celebration as the minutes ticked down 

to the New Year. 

And yet, despite all this, Alex and Sabina felt out of place. Not many other 

teenagers had been invited, and the ones they met all lived locally, seemed to be at 

least six feet tall, and clearly regarded them as outsiders. Alex and Sabina ate 

together, had a couple of sodas, and made their way to the dance floor—but even 

here they didn‟t feel comfortable, surrounded by adults twisting and swaying to 

music that hadn‟t been popular in decades. 

“I‟ve had enough of this,” Sabina announced as the band lurched into an ABBA 

classic. 

Alex knew what she meant. The center of the dance floor was dominated by three 

bald men in kilts, jabbing their fingers into the air to the tune of “Money, Money, 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Money.” He glanced at his watch. It was only ten past eleven. “I don‟t think we can 

leave yet, Sabina,” he said. 

“Have you seen my dad?” 

“He was talking to one of the politicians.” 

“Probably hoping to get a story. He never stops.” 

“Come on, Sabina. Cheer up. This place is meant to be hundreds of years old. Let‟s 

go and explore.” 

They pushed their way off the dance floor and headed down the nearest corridor. 

The stone walls twisted around, and the music and the noise of the party were cut 

off almost at once. Another corridor led off of it, this one decorated with 

tapestries and heavy gilt mirrors with glass blackened by age. At the end, they 

came to a staircase that led to one of the towers, and suddenly they found 

themselves outside, surrounded by a low brick wall, looking out into the white-

spotted blackness that the night had become. 

“That‟s better,” Sabina said. “I was suffocating in there.” 

“Are you cold?” Alex could see the snow falling gently onto her bare neck and 

shoulders. 

“I‟ll be all right for a minute.” 

“Here.” He took off his jacket and handed it to her. 

“Thanks.” She slipped it on. There was a pause. “I wish I didn‟t have to go back to 

America,” she said. 

The words jolted Alex. He had forgotten momentarily that she would be returning 

in a few days‟ time. She‟d enrolled at a school in San Francisco, where the family 

was living, and it would be a while before they saw each other again. He‟d miss her. 

The thought saddened him. He‟d seen so much of Sabina over the Christmas break 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

that he‟d gotten used to having her around. “Maybe I could come over for the 

Easter holidays,” he said. 

“Have you been to San Francisco?” 

“Once. My uncle took me on a business trip. At least, that‟s what he told me. He 

was probably working with the CIA, spying on someone or something.” 

“Do you ever think about Damian Cray?” 

“No.” Alex shook his head. The question seemed to have come out of nowhere. Alex 

glanced at Sabina and was surprised to see that she was looking at him with 

something close to anger in her eyes. 

“I do. All the time. It was horrible. He was crazy. And the way he died! I‟ll 

remember that for the rest of my life.” 

Well, that made sense. Sabina had been there at the very end. In fact, she had 

been at least partly responsible for his sensational death. 

“I thought you said you were going to stop all that,” she went on. “Playing at being a 

spy . . .” 

“It was never my choice,” Alex replied. “And anyway, I‟ve already told your dad. 

I‟ve stopped. It‟s not going to happen again.” 

Sabina sighed. “San Francisco‟s great,” she said. “Great shops. Great food. Great 

weather. But I miss England.” She paused. “I miss you.” 

“I‟ll come visit. I promise.” 

“You‟d better. . . .” 

They had only been outside for a couple of minutes, but in this weather it was more 

than enough. Alex could see the flakes of snow in Sabina‟s hair. “Let‟s go 

downstairs,” he suggested. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Yeah. Let‟s find Dad and get out of here. I‟ll go back to the main hall. You look in 

the other rooms. I want to get back to Mum, and if you ask me, this party sucks. 

All these men in kilts and not one of them with decent legs . . .” 

She handed him back his jacket and the two of them made their way back down the 

twisting staircase, then split up, searching for Edward Pleasure. Alex watched 

Sabina hurry down the corridor, then went the other way, past more unsmiling 

portraits of long-dead ancestors. He wondered why anyone would want to live in a 

place like this. Maybe Desmond McCain needed somewhere to hide from the world. 

When he wasn‟t trying to save it. 

He heard the murmur of voices, the clink of a glass, and a woman laughing. He had 

come to a set of double doors, opening into what must be the castle‟s library, with 

shelves of leather-bound books that looked at least a hundred years old and which 

were surely never read. He saw at once that the library had been converted into a 

casino, with card tables, a spinning roulette wheel, and croupiers in white shirts, 

waistcoats, and bow ties. As he walked in, the roulette ball tumbled into its slot 

with a loud clunk, the audience laughed and applauded, and the croupier called out 

“Eighteen, red, even . . .” and began to sort out the bets. There were almost a 

hundred people playing the different games, most of them holding drinks and one 

or two of them puffing at cigars. This must be the only room in the castle where 

smoking was allowed; a cloud of smoke hung in the air. 

Alex didn‟t even notice himself entering the room, so spellbound was he. He looked 

briefly at the cards sliding across the green baize, the fresh bets stacking up in 

front of the roulette wheel, the men and women, some standing, some sitting, 

leaning forward, their faces flushed with excitement. The main focus of attention 

seemed to be at the far end of the room. There was a game in progress with six 

players—but one of them had just lost. Alex saw him throw his cards down with 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

disgust and get up, leaving an empty chair. At the same time the winning player 

laughed a deep, rich sound that warmed the room. 

Desmond McCain. It had to be him. Alex would have known it even if he hadn‟t been 

the only black man in the room. McCain was lolling back in his chair in front of a 

great window that had the effect of framing him, putting him at the center of the 

picture. Almost despite himself, Alex moved forward to get a closer look. He had 

been thinking about McCain only a few minutes ago. It couldn‟t hurt to see what the 

laird of Kilmore Castle was really like. 

McCain was gathering up his cards, which almost disappeared in his oversized 

hands. He was a huge man with an extraordinary presence that somehow drew Alex 

to him. He was completely bald, with a round, polished head that had surely never 

seen a single hair. His eyes were a strange shade of gray—they were dark yet 

alight with electricity—and his smile was quite simply dazzling. Like everyone else, 

he was dressed in black tie, but unlike so many of the others, he looked completely 

comfortable, as if he always dressed this way. 

He picked up a glass of whisky, which he drank as if it were a cocktail, using a 

straw at the side of his mouth, and Alex remembered what Edward Pleasure had 

told him about the boxing injury. It was true. The man he was looking at had 

received a blow that had permanently dislocated his jaw. Worse than that, it had 

been put back together in such a way that it no longer fit properly. It was as if 

someone had taken a photograph of his head, cut it horizontally in half, and then 

reattached the two pieces a few millimeters apart. His eyes and nose were no 

longer exactly over his mouth. 

And there was something else. McCain said something, turned his head, and laughed 

a second time. That was when Alex saw it. He was wearing a silver crucifix, not 

around his neck but on his ear. It was less than a centimeter high, pinned into the 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

lobe. The jewelry was quite striking set against the intense, dark skin. This was a 

man who wore his faith openly, who dared you to argue against it. 

Alex drew closer. The six of them had been playing a version of poker—Texas Hold 

‟Em—in which five cards turned faceup are used by everyone at the table. And the 

stakes couldn‟t have been higher. Alex saw this at once from the number of 

different-colored chips spilling over the table—each one marked $50, $100, even 

$500. Each chip had been bought at its face value. The casino was using real 

money. Alex could feel the tension in the air. A scattering of cards, a few minutes‟ 

playing time, and thousands of dollars could be changing hands. At the moment, 

McCain was clearly in the lead. 

There was a whole mountain of chips stacked up in front of him, and only one of the 

players—a man with a shock of silver hair and a thick, fleshy face—came anywhere 

close. 

McCain looked up and noticed Alex. At once the smile was there, drawing him in, 

making him feel that the two of them had known each other for years. 

“Good evening,” he boomed. “Welcome to the Kilmore Casino. You‟re frankly a little 

young to be gambling, I‟d have said. What‟s your name?” 

“Alex. Alex Rider.” 

“And I‟m Desmond McCain. We‟re just about to play the last hand. Why don‟t you 

join us? It‟s all for a good cause, so I think we can turn a blind eye to the age 

limit.” He gestured at the seat that had just been vacated. Alex could already hear 

that his broken jaw made it difficult for him to speak. Words beginning with f or r 

came out slightly blurred. “The cards have been quite interesting this evening. Let‟s 

see if they have anything more to say before midnight.” 

Alex knew he was making a mistake. He was meant to be looking for Edward 

Pleasure. He had agreed with Sabina. They were going to leave. But it was almost as 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

if McCain had challenged him. If he walked away now, he would look like some little 

kid who was out of his depth. McCain had won the last hand and was neatly stacking 

up all the chips, including those of the man who had just left. Alex took his chair 

and sat down. 

“Good!” McCain beamed at him. “Do you know the rules of Texas Hold ‟Em?” 

Alex nodded. 

“We‟re taking this very seriously. It costs five hundred dollars to join the table—

that money goes straight to First Aid—and minimum bets are fifty dollars. Have 

you brought your pocket money with you?” 

A couple of the other players laughed. Alex ignored them. “I didn‟t bring any money 

at all,” he said. 

“Then we‟ll waive the entrance fee and I‟ll stake you. This is the last hand of the 

evening, so one thousand dollars ought to be enough.” He slid the chips over. “It 

makes it more fun with more people. And you never know. You could win enough to 

buy yourself a new PlayStation!” 

With Alex making up the numbers, there would be six players at the table: three 

men, two women, and him. McCain was at one end with a dark-haired woman—Alex 

vaguely recognized her as a television reporter—at his side. Then came an elderly 

man who could have been a retired soldier, sitting rigidly with a straight back and a 

face fixed in concentration. The silver-haired man came next. He reminded Alex of 

an accountant or a banker. The circle was completed by a Scottish woman with 

ginger hair, sipping champagne even though it was clear she‟d already had more 

than enough. 

The croupier shuffled the deck and each player was dealt two cards, facedown. 

These were known as the “hole cards.” Alex had learned the basics of the game, 

playing with Ian Rider and Jack Starbright at an age when other children were 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

probably reading Dick and Jane. Texas Hold ‟Em is largely a game of bluff. You try 

to make pairs, three of a kind, a full house, and so on. But everything depends on 

your hidden cards. They may be great. They may be terrible. The secret is to make 

sure no one guesses either way. 

Alex watched as McCain raised the corners of his cards with a thumb and smiled, 

not even attempting to conceal his pleasure. Of course, it was possible that he was 

bluffing, but Alex got the sense that this wasn‟t a man who was too clever when it 

came to hiding his emotions. He must have something good under there . . . high 

cards or a pair. Alex examined his own cards. There was nothing to get excited 

about, but he kept his own face blank. 

“Come on, then,” McCain said. 

The croupier was a pale, serious-looking man in his late twenties. He looked 

uncomfortable having a teenager in the game, but dealt three more cards—“the 

flop”—faceup on the table. All six players would use these cards to try to create 

the best hand possible. The first one out was the jack of diamonds, a face card. 

Then came the seven of hearts. The third card drew a slight murmur from the 

people gathered around. It was the ace of spades. This was going to be an 

expensive game. 

The betting began. 

Alex looked at all the money he had been given, thinking there must be better ways 

to spend a thousand dollars. McCain started the bidding with two hundred dollars, 

and the reporter folded at once. 

“There‟s no point playing against you, Desmond,” she said. She had a thick Scottish 

accent. “You always win.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“„We are all running in the race,‟” McCain said. “„But only one receives the prize.‟” 

He laughed briefly. “That‟s Corinthians, chapter nine, verse twenty-four.” He 

turned to the soldier. “Are you in, Hamilton?” 

Hamilton also folded. The accountant, Alex, and the ginger-haired woman all slid 

their $100 chips in front of them. 

Two more cards. Two more bets. By the time the last card had been dealt, this was 

what Alex was looking at, spread out on the green baize surface: 

 

There were just three players remaining. The other woman had folded, leaving 

Alex, the accountant, and McCain to fight it out. The fact that the ace of spades 

had now been joined by a pair of jacks sitting faceup on the table made this an 

even more extraordinary game. McCain had asked if the cards had anything to say, 

and it seemed that they were screaming. If this had been a real casino, the betting 

might have climbed to hundreds of thousands of dollars. Even so, it was going to 

get expensive. Alex had just $700 left, yet the accountant had almost as much as 

McCain. And, even with such high sums, it was obvious that there was more to this 

than money. McCain was still relaxed, still smiling—yet he really wanted to win the 

game. It was his party, his castle, his evening. It was a matter of personal pride. 

And the other people in the room had sensed it too. Alex realized that the roulette 

wheel had stopped spinning. Everyone had gathered around the table to watch this 

strange contest—two men, a boy, and five white rectangles that, combined with the 

turned-down cards, could mean so much or so little. 

“Interesting cards,” McCain muttered. “If either of you have another ace, you‟ll 

have two pairs. You could win the entire pot . . .” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Why had he said that, Alex wondered. The odds of two pairs at poker are not huge. 

Why even mention it? Was he perhaps challenging them? Or could it be that he was 

trying to divert their attention? Suppose he had three of a kind . . . 

“I‟ll tell you what,” McCain went on with a fast check of his watch. “It‟s the last 

game of the evening, so why don‟t we have a bit of fun?” 

McCain lifted his hands theatrically, touched the two thumb tips together, then 

laid his palms flat on the table. There was a stir from the audience as he used the 

wedge to slide all his chips forward, the piles collapsing on top of one another as at 

least fifteen thousand dollars‟ worth of chips were spread across the table. One or 

two people clapped. Everyone knew what was happening here. It was all or nothing. 

This was one of those games that any serious gambler would remember for the 

rest of his life. 

“I‟m going to make it easy for you,” McCain said. He ran a hand across his jaw as if 

he were trying to smooth it back into place. “I know the two of you don‟t have 

enough money to match my bet, but I‟m feeling charitable.” He smiled at his own 

joke. “Put all your money in and we‟ll call it even.” 

The accountant drummed his fingers on the table. “Are you trying to pretend 

you‟ve got the third jack, Desmond?” he asked. He had a clipped, nasal way of 

speaking. His eyes were small and almost colorless; Alex watched them dart from 

McCain to the cards on the table and somehow knew that he was about to make a 

mistake. “I think you‟re bluffing,” he went on. “You‟re just trying to scare us away. 

Well, it‟s not going to work.” He slid his own pile into the center, the plastic chips 

mingling with McCain‟s. He‟d added about ten thousand dollars of his own. 

Twenty-five thousand dollars! Any thought of charity had suddenly disappeared. It 

was a fantastic sum of money to be determined by the turn of two cards. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Alex glanced at his own pile of chips. It looked pathetic in comparison with the 

others, but he assumed McCain‟s invitation extended to him. “I‟m in,” he said. 

“All right, Leo!” McCain nodded at the accountant. “Let‟s see what you‟ve got.” 

The accountant flicked over his two cards. There was a mutter of approval from 

the spectators. He did indeed have another ace—the ace of diamonds—plus a two 

of spades. Adding them to the faceup cards gave him two pairs—aces and jacks—a 

very good hand. McCain really would need three of a kind to do better. 

It should have been Alex‟s turn to show his cards next, yet McCain ignored him. 

“Too bad, Leo!” he crowed. “„God hath delivered you into my hand‟—as it says in the 

first book of Samuel, chapter twenty-three.” The silver crucifix glimmered briefly 

as he leaned forward and picked up his cards. He paused for a moment, then turned 

them over, one at a time. The first card was the jack of clubs. Three of a kind. It 

beat Leo easily. But then came the real triumph. He turned over the second card to 

reveal the other black jack—the jack of spades. The audience exploded. The odds 

of getting four of a kind in Texas Hold ‟Em are 4,165 to 1. It was incredible luck. It 

was almost miraculous. 

Now Alex understood why McCain had talked about two pairs. He had actually been 

underselling himself to draw the other players in. And the tactic, at least in part, 

had worked. 

“I have the knaves and that makes it my evening,” McCain roared. His eyes were 

bright with pleasure. He leaned forward and began to sweep all the chips toward 

him. 

“What about my cards?” Alex said quietly. 

“Your cards?” McCain blinked. He had forgotten Alex was even there. He glanced 

down at the table as if to reassure himself. Nothing could beat four jacks, not with 

only one ace showing on the table . . . could it? He relaxed. “Do forgive me, Alex,” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

he said. “I should have let you show your cards first. But everyone here would love 

to see them. What have you got?” 

Alex waited a moment. He was aware that everyone was watching him. But for some 

reason he wanted McCain to remember this. Maybe it was just that he didn‟t like 

being taken for granted. 

He turned over the eight of hearts. And then the ten of hearts. 

There was a long silence as the truth sank in. Then the audience gasped. The seven 

of hearts, the nine of hearts, and the jack of hearts were already on the table, 

faceup. Put them together with Alex‟s cards and he had a straight flush . . . seven, 

eight, nine, ten, and jack of hearts. And in the rules of poker, a straight flush 

beats four of a kind. 

Alex had won. 

McCain froze with his hands still cradling the chips, and in that moment Alex 

stared at all the chips spread out in front of him. They were all his! He had just 

won more money than he had owned in his whole life. But even so, he regretted 

what he had done. McCain was his host. This was meant to be his big night. Yet he 

had just been shown up in front of a large crowd of his friends by an unknown 

fourteen-year-old. How would he take it? Alex glanced up. McCain was staring 

across the table with raw anger in his eyes. 

“I‟m sorry . . . ,” Alex began. 

McCain slammed his hands together as if to break the mood. At the same time, he 

leaned back and roared with laughter. “Well, there‟s a lesson in pride,” he 

exclaimed loudly, for everyone to hear. “I jumped in too quickly. I was too sure of 

myself, and it seems I‟ve been undone by a child I don‟t even remember inviting. 

Never mind! Alex, you‟ve beaten me fair and square.” He used his huge hands to 

push the chips away as if trying to distance himself from them. “You can cash in 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

your chips with the croupier. I bet you must be the richest thirteen-year-old in 

Scotland right now.” 

“Actually, I‟m fourteen,” Alex said. “And I don‟t want the money. You can give it all 

to First Aid.” 

That drew a round of applause from the audience. McCain stood up. “That‟s very 

generous of you,” he said. “Donating my own money to my own charity!” He was 

joking, but there was an edge to his voice. “I can promise you it will be well spent.” 

He moved away from the table, a few people patting him on the back as he left. 

Alex glanced down one last time at McCain‟s cards: the knaves, as he had called 

them. They were strangely ugly—almost like freaks, joined at the chest, with 

flowing hair and strange multicolored tunics. 

Scowling knaves versus his own brave hearts. But of course, it didn‟t mean anything. 

They were only cards, and even as he watched, they were swept away and shuffled 

back into the deck. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

4 

 

OFF-ROAD VEHICLE 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

TWENTY-FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS. 

Even as he made his way back into the main body of the castle, Alex thought about 

what he had just done. It had been an awful lot of money to give away without 

thinking. He could have held back a little of it, bought something for Jack or 

Sabina. 

He shook his head, annoyed with himself. Charity was what the evening was all 

about. The money wasn‟t his and never had been. He remembered the look of anger 

in Desmond McCain‟s eyes as Alex had revealed his straight flush. McCain might be 

a born-again Christian, but he hadn‟t liked being beaten and somehow Alex doubted 

that he was going to be invited back. 

Sabina had disappeared, but Alex stumbled across Edward Pleasure in yet another 

of the castle‟s many passageways, leaning on his walking stick while he talked on his 

BlackBerry. There was a spiral staircase just behind him, leading up to the next 

floor. 

He closed up the phone as Alex approached. “That was Liz,” he said. “She‟s not 

feeling any better and I‟m beginning to think we ought to head back after all . . .” 

“That‟s fine with me,” Alex said. “In fact, Sabina was looking for you. She wants to 

leave too.” 

It was half past eleven. In just thirty minutes there would be the countdown to 

midnight, balloons, more champagne, and a chorus of “Auld Lang Syne” before what 

had been described as the biggest fireworks display in Scotland. Guests were 

already streaming past, making their way into the main room. But Alex didn‟t mind 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

missing it. There was something about Kilmore Castle that he found unsettling. 

Maybe it was the fact that it was so ancient and remote, perched high above the 

loch as if it didn‟t want to belong to the twenty-first century. He would be glad to 

see in the New Year somewhere else. 

“Let‟s wait here for Sabina,” Mr. Pleasure said. “She‟s bound to turn up sooner or 

later.” 

Neither of them spoke. Alex could hear music coming from the dance floor—now 

they‟d shifted into Michael Jackson. A few more guests hurried past. One of them 

recognized him from the casino and smiled at him. Once again, the two of them 

were alone. 

“So, are you looking forward to school?” Edward asked, as much to fill the silence 

as anything else. 

“Yes. I am.” If the question had taken Alex by surprise, so did the answer. He 

really was looking forward to the start of the spring term. He felt safe at school. 

He felt normal. 

“What was that essay you were working on?” 

Alex had brought homework with him to Scotland. After taking so much time off, 

he was trying as best he could to catch up. “I‟m doing a project about GM crops,” 

he said. 

“GM?” 

“You know . . . genetically modified. It‟s something we‟ve been looking at in biology. 

How scientists can muck around with crops and make them do different things.” 

Alex dredged his mind, trying to remember what he‟d been learning the term 

before. “It‟s something Prince Charles is always going on about,” he said. “He‟s 

afraid they‟ll accidentally destroy the world.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“The real problem with GM crops could be the corporations who end up controlling 

them,” Edward said. “Have you heard of the terminator gene?” 

Alex shook his head. 

“It‟s something they‟ve built into plants that effectively turns them off. It stops 

them from reproducing. So if you want more wheat or barley or whatever, you have 

to go back to the same company and pay them. You see what I mean? Whoever 

controls the genes could end up controlling the world‟s economy. It might be a good 

subject for me to write about myself. The real danger of genetically modified food 

. . .” 

There was the sound of footsteps coming down the spiral staircase and suddenly 

Desmond McCain was there, pacing toward them. Sitting at the card table, Alex 

hadn‟t realized how big the man was. He was almost seven feet tall, built like an 

American football player, with oversized shoulders and arms. Given his life story, 

he must have been at least fifty years old, but he looked much younger. He 

obviously still kept himself in shape. 

Edward Pleasure turned around and recognized him. “Reverend McCain!” he 

exclaimed. 

“Mr. Pleasure . . .” McCain came to a halt. Alex saw a hard-to-read emotion pass 

over his face. His eyes, ever so briefly, clouded over as the zigzag that was his 

mouth stretched tight. Then, just as quickly, the expression of unease was gone. 

He smiled. “I‟m very glad you could make it to my little affair,” he said. He 

gestured at Alex. “Are the two of you together by any chance?” 

“Yes. Have you met?” 

“Alex and I were playing cards just a few minutes ago.” McCain‟s smile remained, 

but it seemed a little strained and artificial. “If I‟d known he was your guest, 

perhaps I wouldn‟t have been so rash with my betting. He actually cleaned me out.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

They were now all standing on the same level, but McCain still loomed over them. 

“How is the article?” he asked. 

“It‟s finished.” 

“I hope it won‟t contain any unpleasant surprises.” 

“You won‟t have long to wait. It should be out next month.” 

“Have you delivered it?” 

“Not yet.” 

“I‟m looking forward to reading it.” McCain examined the journalist as if it was his 

mind that he was trying to read. For a moment neither of them spoke. Then McCain 

blinked as if he had suddenly lost interest. “But now you must forgive me,” he said. 

“I have a speech to make. Thank you so much for coming to Kilmore Castle. It was 

very good to see you again. And a pleasure to meet you, Alex.” 

He swept past them in the direction of the banqueting hall. Edward Pleasure was 

looking puzzled. “What was all that about?” he asked. 

Alex shrugged. “I don‟t know.” He hesitated. “I thought he looked upset about 

something. . . .” 

“I thought so too.” 

“Maybe he‟s worried about what you‟re going to write.” 

“He shouldn‟t be. I‟ve already told you. I had nothing bad to say. Actually, I think 

he‟s quite a remarkable man. Take tonight for example. All these people have come 

here because of him. And it‟s all for charity. He never rests.” 

He stopped as Sabina appeared, hurrying down the corridor toward them. “Dad!” 

she said. “I‟ve been looking for you everywhere.” 

Edward Pleasure put an arm around her. “We‟re leaving,” he said. “Mum‟s still awake. 

We can toast the New Year when we get in.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

They had no choice but to leave through the banqueting hall. By now all the guests 

had assembled and were standing together, champagne glasses in hand, facing the 

gallery where the bagpipe players had been performing and where McCain was 

about to make his speech. At least nobody would notice the three of them as they 

left early. Alex and Sabina followed Edward Pleasure and they made their way down 

the side of the buffet table—which had been partly cleared—on their way out. 

There was a sudden fanfare, a single trumpeter standing at the back of the hall, 

his instrument glowing golden in the candlelight. The notes echoed across the 

chamber and the guests stopped talking and looked up expectantly. McCain 

appeared on the gallery. Two of the Highland pipers walked behind him, flanking 

him, a guard of honor. Alex couldn‟t help wondering if they were about to burst into 

tune. But they stood back as McCain reached the front and looked down on the 

crowd. 

“I want to thank you all for coming,” he began, his voice booming out. “I‟ll be brief. 

It will turn midnight in exactly twenty minutes, and that‟s when the party really 

begins. For those of you who stay the course, we‟ll be serving haggis, neeps, and 

tatties, then a traditional Scottish breakfast to see you off. And the champagne 

will be flowing all night.” 

A few people cheered. The invitation had made it clear that everyone was welcome 

until sunrise. 

“We‟re here to enjoy ourselves,” he went on. “But at the same time, we can‟t forget 

the many terrible things that are happening around the world and the many millions 

of people who need our help. I want you to know that tickets sold for tonight‟s 

party, along with raffle tickets, our silent auction, and private donations, have 

raised a fantastic $875,000 for First Aid.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

There was another burst of applause. Hearing it, Alex felt ashamed of himself. 

Whatever mistakes he had made in the past, McCain had more than redeemed 

himself. The whole evening was about helping other people, and in his own small way 

Alex had inadvertently spoiled it. 

McCain held up a hand. “I have no idea how that money will be spent, but thank God 

it‟s there.” He stressed the word God as if the two of them were personal friends. 

“This year, we had those terrible floods in Malaysia, the volcano eruption in 

Guatemala, and most recently, the incident at the Jowada power station in India, 

which could have been much, much worse. We were there first. Your money went 

straight to the people who needed it. Charity is the bond of perfectness, as it says 

in the book of Colos sians. And the next time disaster strikes, wherever in the 

world it happens, we will be ready.” 

Edward Pleasure had retrieved his coat and slipped it on. One of the waiters had 

opened the door to reveal a maelstrom of snow against an unforgiving night. It was 

time to go. Alex took one last look back, and it seemed to him that at that moment, 

standing on his own in the middle of the gallery, Desmond McCain stared straight 

at him, locking him into a final eye contact that ignored the six hundred people 

between them. 

“Alex?” Sabina called out to him. 

And then they were gone, out of the warmth of the castle, hurrying toward the car 

that Edward Pleasure was already unlocking, using the remote control on his key 

ring. The back lights blinked a welcome orange in the darkness. It had been snowing 

all evening. There was a carpet a couple of inches thick on the ground and on top of 

all the cars. If it continued much longer, Sabina might get her skiing break after 

all. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

They threw themselves into the Nissan X-Trail, slamming the doors behind them 

and shaking loose some of the snow that had piled onto the car‟s roof. Once again, 

Alex was glad that they had an off-road vehicle. They would need it tonight. 

“What a night!” Edward Pleasure muttered, echoing Alex‟s thoughts. He turned the 

key in the ignition and the engine began to throb reassuringly. He found the 

heating and turned it up as far as it would go. Alex was next to him. Sabina was 

once again in the back. “I‟m afraid we‟re actually going to have New Year on the 

road,” he said. “It‟ll take us at least an hour to get home.” 

“I don‟t mind.” Sabina was already untangling the wires of her iPod. “That place 

gave me the creeps.” 

“I thought you liked parties.” 

“Yes, Dad. But not when I‟m the youngest person there by about two hundred 

years.” 

They set off, the tires crunching on the newly laid snow. The weather had briefly 

cleared—which was just as well. Edward Pleasure would need all the visibility he 

could get to negotiate his way down the series of hairpin bends that led to the 

main road beside the loch. Alex took one last look at the great bulk of Kilmore 

Castle. He could see the firelight glowing behind the windows of the banqueting 

hall and could imagine McCain‟s speech ending, the balloons cascading, the kissing 

and the singing and then more drinking and dancing into the morning. He was glad 

they‟d left early. He‟d had a great time in Scotland, but, like Sabina, he‟d felt 

slightly uncomfortable at the party. He loosened his bow tie, then pulled it off. 

He‟d have preferred to have spent the evening at home. 

The accident was so sudden, so unexpected, that none of them even realized it had 

happened until it was almost over. For Alex, it was as if the journey down the 

hillside had been broken into a series of still pictures. There was Edward Pleasure 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

changing gear as the car picked up speed. How fast were they going? No more than 

twenty-five miles per hour. Sabina said something and he half turned around to 

answer her. The headlights were shooting out, two separate columns, distinct from 

each other. 

And then there was a cracking sound. It seemed to come from a long way away, but 

that wasn‟t possible. It had to be something in the engine. The car shuddered and 

lurched crazily to one side. Sabina cried out. There was nothing anyone could do. It 

was as if a giant hand had seized the back of the car and swung it around like a toy. 

Alex felt the tires slide helplessly across the road. Edward wrenched the steering 

wheel the other way, but it was useless. They were spinning out of control with the 

night sky rushing toward them. And then came the moment when the tires left the 

icy surface altogether, and with a surge of terror Alex knew that they had come 

off the edge of the rock face, that they were in the air with the black, frozen 

waters of Loch Arkaig far below. 

For half a second the car hung in the air. 

Then it pitched forward and plunged down. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

5 

 

DEATH AND CHAMPAGNE 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

IT WAS LIKE DRIVING deliberately into a black wall. They couldn‟t stop. There 

was nothing they could do. The last thing Alex saw was Edward Pleasure clutching 

the steering wheel as if he had been electrified, his arms rigid, his eyes staring. 

Outside, the world had turned upside down. The headlights were bouncing off the 

surface of the loch, which hurtled toward them, filling the front window. 

They hit the water. The actual impact was brutal, whipping them forward and 

backward at the same time. Alex realized that there must have been a thin coating 

of ice stretching across the lake—he heard it and felt it splinter. It was like 

smashing through a mirror into another dimension. The car didn‟t float, even for a 

second. Carried on by its own velocity, it plunged into the darkness, huge tentacles 

of water reaching out and drawing it in. The real world of Scotland and castles and 

New Year was wiped out as if it had never existed, to be replaced by . . . nothing. 

All the lights in the car had gone out. It was as if steel shutters had fallen on the 

other side of the windows. Alex would never have believed that darkness could be 

so total. 

Something was pressing against him, smothering him. For a moment he panicked, 

punching out with his fists, trying to get whatever it was off him. He couldn‟t 

breathe. What was this huge thing pushing him back into his seat? Where had it 

come from? He forced himself to think straight, to fight against the sense of blind 

terror. 

The air bag. That was all. It must have been activated at the moment of impact. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Air. He was going to need it. They were still sinking beneath the surface, getting 

deeper and deeper. He couldn‟t see anything, but he could feel the pressure in his 

ears. There was no letup. It was getting worse and worse. How deep was the loch? 

Some of these Scottish lakes continued down for hundreds of feet. They would 

keep going until they reached the bottom, and that was where they would die. 

What had seconds before been a $35,000 luxury car had become a steel coffin. 

There was a soft thud and a shudder as the tires came into contact with mud. Alex 

was aware of a ton of blackness weighing down on him. They weren‟t moving 

anymore. That was something to be grateful for. But how far down had they gone? 

More to the point, how long did they have? The car wouldn‟t be able to keep the 

water out for more than a few minutes. It was even now splashing down onto his 

feet, presumably coming through the air vents on either side of the satellite 

navigation system. The water was freezing cold, numbing the flesh at first touch. 

Already it was over his ankles. It was as if his legs were being taken away from 

him, one inch at a time. 

“Dad?” It was Sabina‟s voice, coming from the backseat. She sounded a mile away. 

“Are you okay, Sabina?” Alex asked. 

“Yes. I think so. What about Dad?” 

Edward Pleasure hadn‟t spoken since they had left the road. Alex reached out over 

the air bag and felt the worst. The journalist was resting against the steering 

wheel . . . unconscious, injured, perhaps even dead. It was impossible to say. Alex 

couldn‟t see anything. He drew his hand back and held it in front of his own face, so 

close that it was brushing against his nose. He couldn‟t see it. It was impossible to 

breathe normally. His heart was racing, trapped inside him, just as he was trapped 

in this car. He couldn‟t deny it. He was terrified. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He swallowed hard and somehow managed to speak. “Your dad‟s unconscious,” he 

said. 

“What happened?” He could hear the tears in Sabina‟s voice. Like him, she was 

struggling for control. 

“I don‟t know.” 

“What do we do?” 

It should have been silent here at the bottom of Loch Arkaig, yet Alex was aware 

of noise all around him. The engine was ticking and clanking as the engine cooled. 

There were strange, ghostlike echoes coming from the lake itself. The Nissan was 

groaning as it fought against the pressure outside. And—most terrible of all—a 

steady stream of water continued to splash into the cabin. 

Alex felt the water rise over his knees, a blanket of ice. He was sure that it had 

only been at ankle level a few seconds ago, but time didn‟t exist down here. 

Seconds were hours and a whole life could be over in a minute. 

There was the sound of fumbling in the back, then Sabina spoke again. “Alex . . . 

the door‟s locked.” 

“Don‟t even try to open it!” 

Different thoughts were spinning uselessly through his mind. The Nissan might 

have a self-locking system. If the doors had locked themselves electronically, it 

would be impossible to get out. But there was no point in getting out anyway. Inside 

or outside they would die. 

“What are we going to do?” 

Alex was still blind. He reached up, hitting his hand on the ceiling. Where was the 

light switch over the mirror? He found it and turned it on. Nothing. Of course, the 

car‟s electrical circuits would have flooded. But then he remembered. Edward 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Pleasure had consulted a map just after they‟d left Hawk‟s Lodge . . . and he‟d used 

a flashlight. Where had he put it? 

He pushed the air bag out of the way and reached for the glove compartment. 

Somehow he managed to get it open, and more water poured out. God! They couldn‟t 

have more than a few minutes left. The water had already risen over the edge of 

his seat, rushing between his legs. It was unbelievably cold. The whole lower part 

of his body no longer belonged to him. 

But he had found what he was looking for. A heavy rubber cylinder. He flicked it on 

and to his utter relief it worked. The beam leapt out of his hand. 

Alex had experienced more than enough in the past year, but he would never 

forget what he saw right then. It was the perfect nightmare. 

The car was already half filled with water, which looked as black and as thick as oil. 

More of it was pouring out of the ventilation ducts, coming in two steady streams. 

Outside the windows there was nothing. The glass didn‟t even look like glass. They 

could have been buried alive rather than deep under the surface of Loch Arkaig . . . 

it would have made no difference. The two air bags took up most of the space in 

the front of the car. Edward Pleasure was slumped against his, a great gash on the 

side of his head. Alex undid his seat belt and twisted around. Sabina was looking 

more frightened than he had ever seen her. She had drawn up her legs as if she 

were cowering away from the water, but it had reached her anyway. It completely 

covered the backseat. The bottom of her silver dress was soaked. She was 

shivering with cold and fear. 

They were in a tomb. And they were alone. Nobody would have seen them leave the 

road. Nobody would ever find them. It would simply seem that they had vanished 

into thin air. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Alex . . .” Sabina was staring at the flashlight as if it could somehow save her life. 

“What happened?” 

“I don‟t know. The car lost control.” 

“Is Dad . . . ?” 

“He‟s okay. He‟s still breathing.” The light flickered and for a brief second the 

darkness rushed in. It couldn‟t go out now! Alex tightened his grip as if he could 

somehow will the batteries to keep working. “We‟re going to have to open the 

window, Sabina.” 

“Why?” 

“It‟s the reason the doors won‟t open. We have to make the pressure inside the car 

the same as the pressure outside.” 

“But then we‟ll drown.” 

“No.” Alex shook his head. “We didn‟t sink that far. I don‟t think we can be more 

than sixty feet down.” 

“Sixty feet is a long way, Alex.” 

Alex drew a breath. He knew that there couldn‟t be too many more breaths in this 

cramped compartment available to him. The water was rising all the time, the air 

space beneath the ceiling becoming narrower and narrower. But once the water 

reached the level of the air vents, it would stop. They would be sitting in a bubble 

of air that would quickly diminish as they breathed out carbon dioxide. Sabina had 

been wrong. They wouldn‟t drown. They would suffocate. 

“We have to get out of the car and swim for the surface,” he said. “It‟s the only 

way.” 

“What about Dad?” 

“Don‟t worry. I‟ll look after him.” 

“But how do we open the window?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

All the windows in the Nissan were electrically operated, and even if the battery 

still had power, it wouldn‟t have been enough to move them. The pressure outside 

was too great. A manual handle would have been equally useless. They had to break 

the glass. Alex thought about leaning back and kicking out, using the heel of his 

shoe. But he knew it wouldn‟t work. He couldn‟t get the right angle, and anyway, the 

glass was reinforced. He‟d never have the strength. 

He needed a hammer or an ax. Something metallic. A fire extinguisher? There 

wasn‟t one. Golf clubs? Edward Pleasure had brought golf clubs with him, but they 

weren‟t in the car. He‟d left them back at Hawk‟s Lodge. 

Then Alex remembered. 

“Sabina, where‟s your dad‟s walking stick?” 

“It‟s here.” 

“Pass it to me.” He couldn‟t keep the panic out of his voice. He could feel the 

seconds ticking away. 

Sabina passed it across and Alex quickly examined it in the tentative light. The 

handle was metal and shaped like a duck‟s head. He could use it like a hammer . . . 

except it was too long. He didn‟t have enough room to swing it. It had to be 

shorter. How? 

“Take this.” He handed the flashlight to Sabina. “Shine it on me.” 

“What are you doing?” 

He didn‟t answer her. He took the walking stick and fed it through the steering 

wheel, slanting diagonally across the dashboard so that the tip was in the far 

corner. The bulk of the walking stick was now in front of him. Using all his strength 

and his own body weight, he wrenched forward, pushing the stick in front of him. 

There was a creak of straining wood, but the stick held. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The water was rising over his chest. He could feel its grip, as cold as death. He 

tried again and this time he was successful. The walking stick snapped in half. 

There was no time to lose. He let the bottom half drop and took the splintered end 

in his hand. He now had something like a hammer, about a foot long. 

“I‟m going to break the window,” he shouted. “Take a deep breath. As soon as the 

water‟s over your head, you‟ll be able to open the door.” 

Sabina nodded. She was either too cold or too frightened to speak. 

Alex clutched the walking stick. Then, at the last minute, he remembered 

something he had learned from his days scuba diving with his uncle. “Don‟t hold 

your breath!” he exclaimed. It was one of the most common reasons for diving 

accidents. If he and Sabina held their breath as they rose through the different 

pressure levels, they would end up puncturing their lungs. “Swim as fast as you 

can,” he said. “But remember to hum as you go.” 

“What do you want me to hum, Alex? „Auld Lang Syne‟?” 

Alex almost smiled. Only Sabina could still make jokes at a time like this. Perhaps 

that was why the two of them were so close. “Hum anything, Sabina,” he said. “As 

long as you‟re humming, your lungs will be open.” 

He unfastened Edward‟s seat belt and checked that the driver‟s door was unlocked. 

The car was filling more slowly now, but there couldn‟t be much more oxygen left. 

He tightened his grip on the broken walking stick, then swung it with all his 

strength, aiming for his own passenger window, as high up as possible. The duck‟s-

beak handle slammed into the glass. 

Sabina had aimed the flashlight toward him, and he saw a series of spidery cracks 

in the glass. Water oozed in, but the window held. Was it his imagination or was it 

already getting more difficult to breathe? He had seconds left. He swung the 

makeshift hammer again, then once more. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

On the third strike, the window shattered, and Alex was almost torn out of his 

seat by the torrent of water that came rushing in, filling up the available space. 

The flashlight went out and the blackness returned so suddenly that he wondered 

if the force of the water might have knocked him out. But he was still conscious. 

Still thinking. Had Sabina managed to open her door? He couldn‟t worry about her. 

There was nothing more he could do. He had to get himself out. And Edward 

Pleasure too. 

Fumbling, blind, he searched for the door handle. He had underestimated just how 

cold the rush of water would be. There were iron bands around his chest, crushing 

him, trying to empty his lungs. He squeezed the handle and felt the door open. At 

once he lurched sideways, fighting his way out of the car. 

But he didn‟t dare go too far. Everything was black. If he lost contact with the car, 

he would never find it again, and Edward Pleasure would drown. With the icy water 

swirling around his face, he hooked a hand underneath the door frame and felt his 

way over the roof and down the other side. Where was the door handle? He was 

already beginning to strain for air. He should have opened it from the inside. That 

might have saved a few precious seconds. 

His hand smashed into the side mirror, but it didn‟t matter because he couldn‟t 

feel anything. Somehow he managed to curl his fingers around the handle and pull. 

The door opened. Alex‟s own natural buoyancy was dragging him up, but he kicked 

out, forcing himself to stay down. He reached inside and put his arms around 

Edward Pleasure, yet he couldn‟t get him out. He seemed to be stuck, jammed 

against the steering wheel. 

With his own air running out and the surface at least sixty feet away, Alex thought 

the unthinkable. It was like some devil voice whispering in his ear. Leave him. Look 

after yourself. If you stay down here any longer, both of you will die. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

It was the air bag pinning him in place. That was the problem. Alex still had the 

walking stick. At the last moment, almost instinctually, he had slipped it through 

his belt, taking it with him. Now he drew it out and, holding it this time by the 

handle, jabbed the splintered end into the nylon skin. He felt it puncture and there 

was a rush of bubbles against his fist. He was briefly tempted to breathe them in—

but somehow he remembered that there would be nitrogen rather than oxygen 

inside the bag and it wouldn‟t do him any good. The bag crumpled. Alex pulled again. 

Edward Pleasure came free. 

They were out of the car—but which way was up? Alex couldn‟t even see the 

bubbles escaping from his lips. Nor could he feel them. The intensity of the cold 

had punched right through him and his entire body was numb. He was still gripping 

Edward Pleasure and he kicked out with his legs, hoping that gravity, buoyancy, 

whatever would take him in the right direction. 

The journalist was dragging him down. He was a dead weight in Alex‟s arms, and 

once again that voice was in his ear. Let him go. Forget him. Save yourself. But he 

just gripped all the tighter, kicked and kicked again. 

Alex was following his own advice and humming—not a tune, more a soft moan of 

despair. Suppose he was wrong? The Nissan could have plunged a hundred feet or 

even more. He looked up but saw no light, no sign of the surface. 

He kicked. 

It didn‟t feel as if he was making any progress. And what about Edward? How could 

Alex be sure he was still alive? 

His chest was beginning to ache. His lungs were screaming for air and Alex knew 

that he wouldn‟t be able to resist them much longer. It couldn‟t have taken him 

more than a minute to clamber across the car. Another minute to get Edward out. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Perhaps another minute since then. Surely he could hold his breath longer than 

that! 

But not in this cold. The icy chill of Loch Arkaig had weakened him. It was all over. 

His humming faltered and stopped. There was no more air to come out. With a sob 

of pure despair Alex opened his mouth . . . 

. . . And breathed air. He didn‟t even know how or when he had reached the surface. 

He hadn‟t felt his shoulders break through. Somehow he was just there. As his 

vision cleared, he saw the blurred outline of the moon, lost behind clouds, and a 

scatter of still-falling snow. He had to struggle to keep Edward Pleasure‟s head 

above water, and he wondered, with a sense of dread, if the rescue had all been in 

vain. He wasn‟t sure that Sabina‟s father was still breathing. He looked horribly like 

a corpse. 

And where was Sabina? Alex tried to call her name, but he was too frozen . . . his 

chest, his vocal cords. He jerked around in the water. There was Kilmore Castle, 

high above him. The shore was about sixty feet away. He was alone. She hadn‟t 

made it. 

“Aaah . . .” 

No. He was wrong. There was a splashing sound, the black surface of the lake 

parted, and suddenly Sabina was next to him with light rippling around her. Her 

face was white. Her long hair had come loose and was hanging into the water. She 

had tried to call his name, but it was too much for her. The two of them stared at 

each other, saying more with their eyes than they could ever have managed with 

words. Then Sabina reached out and took hold of her father, sharing the weight. 

The two of them began an awkward, stumbling swim to dry land. 

And even as they went, Alex knew that their ordeal wasn‟t over yet. They hadn‟t 

drowned, but they could still die of cold. Their body temperatures must be 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

dangerously low. Once they were on the shore, they would have to find help—and 

quickly, before their entire systems shut down. But how could they do it? Kilmore 

Castle was too high up, too far away. None of the guests would be leaving yet. And 

Edward Pleasure needed immediate help . . . unless it was already too late. 

There was a loud bang and for a horrible moment Alex thought that someone was 

shooting at them, but a second later the sky exploded with a blaze of white and 

silver, and he realized McCain had just launched his first fireworks. So this was 

the New Year . . . and what a way to begin it, with this hideous midnight swim. All 

around him, the water shimmered with a brilliant array of colors as the display 

continued overhead. He could imagine the guests, sipping their champagne, wrapped 

up in their coats and scarves, as they watched from the battlements with the usual 

ooohs and aaahs as each five-hundred-dollar missile was outdone by the next. What 

would they think if they could see what was happening below? Death and 

champagne. It seemed incredible that the two could be so close, existing side by 

side. 

It took them five minutes to reach the water‟s edge, and climbing onto the beach 

was a horrible, brutal experience. The beach was covered in shingle, slate gray and 

jagged. No feeling had yet returned to Alex‟s arms and legs, but if it had, he would 

have known only pain. He was filthy, covered in some oily film. Water was still 

streaming down his face. It was in his eyes and mouth. He must look barely human. 

But his only thoughts were for Edward Pleasure. Helped by Sabina, he turned the 

journalist onto his back, then knelt beside him. The weeks he had spent in the 

Brecon Beacons being trained by the Special Operations Division of MI6 hadn‟t 

included lifesaving. Fortunately, he‟d learned that at school. There was a hiss and a 

scream, and for a second the sky blazed red, illuminating Edward‟s face. His eyes 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

were still closed. Alex checked that his mouth wasn‟t blocked. He found his heart, 

placed both fists on top of it, and pushed hard. 

He did it again, then continuously. Sabina was shaking violently. She might have 

been sobbing, but she made no sound. She had no strength left. She could only 

watch in growing despair as Alex kept up the massage. Edward Pleasure lay flat out, 

still. But suddenly, on the tenth or eleventh attempt, he suddenly coughed and 

water gushed out of his mouth. Sabina grabbed hold of his arm. He opened his 

eyes. Alex let out a deep breath. He‟d been about to try mouth-to-mouth 

resuscitation, and despite everything, a little part of him was relieved that it 

wasn‟t going to be needed. 

Silver sparks crackled and exploded, hundreds of them, spread out across the 

darkness, then rained slowly down onto the loch. 

We‟ve got to get help. Alex tried to speak, but he was so cold, he couldn‟t make 

himself understood and the words came out as no more than single letters. “W-w-w 

. . . v-v-v . . . g-g-g . . .” His whole body was out of control. His teeth were 

chattering. The muscles in his neck and shoulders seemed to be locked rigid. He 

could see the snow settling on Sabina‟s and her father‟s hair. He had never been so 

cold. He hadn‟t thought it was possible for the human body to continue functioning 

at this temperature. A few more minutes out here and the three of them would 

freeze solid. 

But the greatest miracle of the night was still to come. Alex heard the sound of 

footsteps on the shingle and turned around. There was a man hurrying toward 

them, carrying a blanket. He had appeared as if by magic. In fact, it seemed so 

unlikely that he was there at all that Alex wondered if he was hallucinating. It was 

impossible to make out the man‟s features in the shifting colors of the night, but 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

vaguely Alex registered the fact that he wasn‟t dressed in black tie. He wasn‟t a 

guest from the party. 

The man reached them. “I saw what happened!” he exclaimed. “I thought you must 

be dead. Are you all right? Can you move?” 

“Our car . . .” Alex pointed out at the loch. For a moment, the water blazed emerald 

green. A great circle of fire hung in the sky, then blinked out. 

“I know. I saw. We have to get you, quickly, into the warm.” The man draped the 

blanket over Sabina, and as he leaned forward another firework exploded, the 

glare revealing the side of his face. Alex saw that he was either Indian or 

Pakistani, a young man, in his very early twenties. As Sabina clutched the blanket 

and drew it around her shoulders, the man peeled off his coat and gave it to Alex. 

“Put this on,” he instructed. “Do you think you can walk? My van is just up on the 

road. It‟s only five minutes from here. Once you‟re inside, you‟ll be okay.” 

Edward Pleasure was recovering his strength. He dragged himself up onto one 

elbow and broke into another fit of coughing. “What happened?” he asked. His 

voice was little more than a whisper. 

“Not now, sir. Not now. We have to go.” 

The fireworks display had come to an end. In the far distance, Alex heard clapping 

and the blare of plastic noisemakers and paper horns. Slowly, the three of them 

staggered to their feet. Sabina and Alex had to support Edward Pleasure, and all 

three of them needed the help of the man who had come out of nowhere. Somehow 

he managed to guide them across the beach with the snow whirling around them as 

if unwilling to let them go. 

A track led down from the main road and, on it, a white van sat with its headlights 

on and taillights blinking. The sight of it lent them new strength. They came off 

the shingle and threw themselves into the back. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Don‟t worry!” Without his jacket, the man was shivering himself. He paused beside 

the doors. “I‟ll take you to a hospital. You‟ll be all right.” He closed the doors, 

locking them in. 

They were lying on the bare metal, a puddle of water surrounding them. Sabina was 

almost hidden in her blanket. Edward Pleasure was barely conscious. Alex heard the 

driver get into the front, and a few seconds later, they moved off. At the same 

time, he realized that his senses were returning. The man had turned the heat up 

to full and Alex could actually feel the warm breeze against his skin. 

It took them an hour to reach an Inverness hospital, and Liz Pleasure arrived two 

hours after that. By then, all three of them had been treated for hypothermia and 

shock and were tucked up in bed with hot water bottles and soup, being looked 

after by nurses who had agreed to work through New Year‟s Eve and who, Alex 

decided, really were true angels. The man who had rescued them had left without 

even giving his name. He had told them he was a supplier—on his way to Kilmore 

Castle. But what had he been supplying so late into the night? Alex didn‟t think it 

right to ask him, but even now it struck him that something didn‟t quite add up. 

After all, the back of the van had been empty. 

They were released the next morning, Edward Pleasure blaming himself for the car 

accident, all of them too shaken to discuss it. Between them, they had decided to 

cut the vacation short. The Highlands and lochs of Scotland held no attraction 

after what had happened. They needed the reassurance of the city. 

Waiting for the plane that would take them back to London, Alex did wonder if he 

should tell them what he knew, what he had seen one second before the car 

swerved and left the road. But in the end he decided against it. He still wasn‟t one 

hundred percent sure. He wanted to believe that he was wrong. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Just before the car had lost control, he had heard a distant cracking sound. And at 

the same moment, out of the corner of his eye, he thought he‟d seen a tiny flash of 

light in the darkness, behind them and high up above. He hadn‟t imagined it. It had 

been there. And he understood exactly what it meant. 

A marksman positioned in the battlements of Kilmore Castle. 

Edward Pleasure hadn‟t skidded on the ice. One of his tires had been blown out and 

it had been done quite deliberately by someone who wanted to force them off the 

road. Anyone else would have thought they were imagining it, but Alex knew better. 

He had been a target too many times before. Someone had just tried to kill them. 

But who? 

Desmond McCain? Because he had lost at cards? No—that was insane. There had to 

be someone else. An old enemy perhaps. Alex had plenty enough of them. Or maybe 

it had nothing to do with him. Edward Pleasure could have been the target. 

Journalists, too, had plenty of people who wanted to settle scores. 

He said nothing. The last time he had been with the family, in the south of France, 

they had been attacked. How could he possibly tell them that it had happened a 

second time? Sabina would never want to see him again. It was much better to 

persuade himself that he was wrong, that he was tired, that he had an overactive 

imagination. Anyway, in a few minutes they would be in the air, flying south, leaving 

it all behind them. 

And yet, secretly, he knew that he was lying to himself. As his flight was called and 

he picked up his carry-on luggage, Alex gritted his teeth. Trouble never seemed to 

leave him alone. Well, let it follow him to London. He‟d just have to be ready for it 

when it showed up again. 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

6 

 

NINE FRAMES PER SECOND 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

ALEX WAS GLAD TO BE HOME. 

First of all, Jack was there, waiting for him, surrounded by presents she‟d brought 

back from America. Alex sometimes wondered what people would make of the two 

of them, living together the way they did. With her baggy clothes, her wild red 

hair, and her constant smile, Jack was more like a big sister than a housekeeper. 

And although she was actually his legal guardian, she never nagged or lectured him. 

They were really just friends and Alex knew that he couldn‟t have gotten through 

the last twelve months without her. She knew what he was doing. She had tried to 

talk him out of it. But she had never stood in his way. 

She‟d bought him new jeans, two shirts, a Barack Obama baseball cap, and a pair of 

fake police sunglasses. And over their first dinner together, he had told her what 

had happened at Loch Arkaig . . . but with no mention of any sniper. 

“I just don‟t believe it, Alex!” Jack exclaimed. “You go off for a nice New Year‟s 

Eve party and you end up sixty feet under a frozen loch. Only you could manage 

that.” 

“It wasn‟t my fault,” Alex protested. “I wasn‟t driving.” 

“You know what I mean. How‟s Edward? How‟s Sabina?” 

“They‟re okay. They were shaken up. We all were.” 

“I‟m not surprised. Do you know how it happened?” 

Alex hesitated. The one thing he wasn‟t going to do was lie to Jack. “Nobody‟s quite 

sure. They haven‟t gotten the car out yet. It‟s possible they never will. But Edward 

thinks one of the tires blew out. He felt something just before he lost control.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“And what about the man who helped you?” 

“He didn‟t hang around. He didn‟t even wait to be thanked.” 

Alex wouldn‟t have mentioned the accident at all, but he knew it would come out the 

following weekend when he and Jack went to Heathrow Airport to say good-bye to 

Sabina and her parents, who were finally returning home. 

It was an uneasy last meeting, the five of them standing together, hemmed in by 

the crowds and suitcases and bright lights of Terminal Three. 

“We‟ll see you again in the spring,” Edward Pleasure said, reaching out and shaking 

Alex‟s hand. “We‟ve got a spare room and we can head up the coast. I‟m sure you‟d 

enjoy trekking in Yosemite, or we could stay on Big Sur.” 

Sabina‟s mother gave him a hug. “I know what you did,” she said quietly. “Sabina 

told me. Edward would still be in that car if it hadn‟t been for you.” Alex said 

nothing. For some reason, it always embarrassed him, being thanked. “I hope you‟ll 

come and see us. And you too, Jack. Maybe you should come over together.” 

And then it was Sabina‟s turn. She and Alex moved a little to one side. 

“Bye, Alex.” 

“Bye, Sabina.” 

“I thought you were brilliant in the car. When I started to swim up to the surface, 

I was certain I was going to die. But I knew my dad would be all right because you‟d 

promised you‟d look after him.” 

“It seems that every time your family meets me, something bad happens,” Alex 

said. It was true. In Cornwall, the south of France, and now in Scotland . . . sudden 

violence had never been far away. 

“Will you come to San Francisco?” 

“There‟d probably be an earthquake or something.” 

“I don‟t mind. I still want to see you.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Sabina glanced at her parents. They were standing with their backs to her, talking 

to Jack. She quickly leaned forward and kissed Alex on the cheek. Then, suddenly, 

the three of them were picking up their carry-on luggage and making their way 

through to the security checks and passport control. Sabina looked back one last 

time and waved. Then they were gone. 

  

The next day, Alex went back to school and the Christmas holidays were forgotten 

in a whirl of seating assignments, schedules, textbooks, new teachers, and old 

friends. Brookland was a sprawling, mixed comprehensive school half a mile north 

of Chelsea. It had been built only about ten years ago and it prided itself on its 

modern architecture, with double-height windows and bright primary colors. At the 

same time, though, it still had an old-fashioned, friendly feel. Everyone wore 

uniforms . . . sober shades of blue and gray. The school even had a Latin motto: 

Pergo et Perago, which sounded like the story of two Italian cannibals but which 

actually meant “I try and I achieve.” 

“No running in the corridor, Alex.” Miss Bedfordshire, the school secretary, 

greeted Alex with one of her favorite phrases, even though Alex had only been 

walking quickly. She had stepped out of one of the classrooms, blocking his path. 

“Hi, Miss Bedfordshire.” 

“It‟s good to see you. Did you have a good Christmas?” 

“Yes, thanks.” 

“And do you plan to stay with us for the whole term? It would certainly make a nice 

change.” 

Alex had missed almost half the school year, and Miss Bedfordshire had always had 

her doubts about the series of strange illnesses that had been listed on his 

doctor‟s notes. “I hope so,” he said. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Maybe you should eat more fruit. You know . . . an apple a day.” 

“I‟ll give it a try.” 

Alex hurried on his way, aware that the secretary was watching him as he went. 

Sometimes he wondered how much she really knew. 

And then there were twenty minutes of catching up with the usual crowd. Tom 

Harris was late as usual and looked incredibly scruffy in a new uniform, which was 

one size too big for him. His parents had recently gotten separated, and he had 

spent the Christmas holidays with his older brother in Naples. Alex had gotten to 

know them both when he‟d come up against Scorpia for the first time—and Tom 

was the only boy in the school who was aware of his involvement with MI6. There 

were a couple of girls with him now, and together they all piled into the sports hall 

for Year Group Assembly. 

This began, as usual, with a hymn, which the principal, Mr. Bray, insisted on—even 

though every other school in the area had dropped it. There were three hundred of 

them packed into the hall, and they were horribly out of tune. The last chords 

faded away and everyone sat down to listen to an uplifting speech, which, as usual, 

went on too long. This term, it was all about respect. “Respect for others; respect 

for yourself; above all, respect for the community.” Alex noticed that Tom was 

listening intently, with one hand resting against the side of his head. Only he could 

see the white wires of an iPod trailing back down the other boy‟s sleeve and could 

hear the faint tish-ta-ta-tish coming from his ear. 

Then it was on to school business. Mr. Bray introduced a new class tutor and 

mentioned a couple of teachers who were leaving. “One last thing,” he announced. 

“I‟m very happy to tell you that the science wing is finally opening again after the 

mysterious fire that did so much damage back in May.” Alex shifted uncomfortably. 

He had been at the very center of the fire and knew exactly what had caused it. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He was glad that Tom wasn‟t listening. Watching Alex squirm, and knowing as much 

about him as he did, his friend might have been able to put two and two together. 

“I hope you‟ll enjoy the new facilities. I wish you all a hardwork ing and successful 

term.” 

The assembly finished and the lessons began. For Alex that meant history followed 

by math and then social studies, a cheerful assortment for the first morning of 

the first day of classes. After lunch, the first lesson of the afternoon was biology 

with John Gilbert, a young teacher who had only arrived the summer before. He 

was curly haired with glasses and specialized in brightly colored ties. He hadn‟t 

been teaching long enough to lose his enthusiasm, and it had been he who had given 

the class the project on genetic engineering that Alex had described in Scotland. 

“I hope you‟ve all begun to think about this very serious subject,” he began. “I‟m 

going to want to see your written work completed by midterm. And I‟ve got some 

good news.” He picked up a letter and showed it to the class. “At the end of last 

term, I wrote to the Greenfields Bio Center in Wiltshire. I‟m sure you know who 

they are . . . they‟re always in the news. Greenfields is a private organization, one 

of the world leaders in plant science and microbiology. They‟ve been doing more 

than anyone else to develop new techniques in genetic engineering, and they‟ve got 

a huge facility on the edge of Salisbury Plain. I asked if we could visit, look at their 

work, and maybe talk to some of their professors—and rather to my surprise, 

they‟ve agreed. To be honest with you, I didn‟t think they‟d allow school visits 

because so much of their work is secretive. But we‟ll be heading down there in a 

couple of weeks. I‟ll need to get permission from your parents, and I‟ll hand out 

forms at the end of the period. Don‟t forget to get them signed!” 

He put the letter down and went over to the blackboard. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Now, I want to find out how you‟re coming along with your projects. But first of 

all, I asked you to come up with some of the good things and the bad things about 

GM crops. Can anyone give me an example of how this science has helped society?” 

GM crops. 

Alex couldn‟t help himself. He remembered the moment he had told Edward 

Pleasure about his work just as Desmond McCain had come down the stairs, and 

suddenly he was back at Kilmore Castle, half an hour before New Year‟s. McCain 

had appeared alarmed about something. But what could it have been, and could it 

really have led to the gunshot and the near death in Loch Arkaig? 

There had been no gunshot. Alex tried to force the idea out of his head. The car 

had blown a tire, that was all. And yet, he still remembered McCain, the gleaming, 

bald head, the silver cross, the strange line where the two halves of his head failed 

to meet. 

No. This was crazy. McCain ran a charity. He had made a mistake in his life, but he 

had paid for it. He wasn‟t a killer. 

“Rider?” 

Alex heard his name, realized it had been called out twice, and forced himself to 

focus back on the class. Just as he had feared, Mr. Gilbert had asked him 

something and he hadn‟t even heard the question. He‟d been miles away. 

“I‟m sorry, sir?” he said. 

Mr. Gilbert sighed. “You don‟t turn up to school very often, Rider. But it would be 

nice if you actually listened when you did. Hale?” 

James Hale was another of Alex‟s friends, a neat-looking boy with brown hair and 

blue eyes, sitting at the next desk. He glanced apologetically at Alex and then 

answered. “GM science can make crops grow extra vitamins,” he said. “And there 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

was a special sort of rice that was changed so that it could grow underwater for a 

few days without dying.” 

“Very good. It was called golden rice, and obviously it was very useful in countries 

with too much rainfall. Anyone else?” 

Alex made sure he concentrated until the end of the lesson. The first day of the 

term was far too early to get into trouble. Somehow he made it to 3:45 without 

further incident, and then he was part of the crowd, pouring out of the school 

gates with his backpack over his shoulder. For once, he hadn‟t brought his bike with 

him. Alex owned a Condor Junior Roadracer that had been built for him as a 

twelfth birthday present. But he‟d noticed recently that it wasn‟t giving him a 

comfortable ride. The truth was that he was growing out of it, and the seat 

wouldn‟t adjust any more. He would be sorry to see it go. It belonged to his old life, 

before his uncle had died, and there was precious little of that left. 

Perhaps it was thinking of his uncle that drove Alex to take a shortcut across 

Brompton Cemetery. This was where Ian Rider had been buried after the so-called 

car accident, the one that began with gunshots being fired into his uncle‟s car. It 

was at the funeral that Alex had first begun to learn the truth about his uncle, 

that he had never actually worked in a bank. He had instead lived and died as a spy. 

Alex often walked past the gravestone, but today, acting on impulse, he left the 

main path and went over to it. He looked at the name, carved in a square slab of 

gray marble, with the dates below it and a single line: A GOOD MAN TAKEN 

BEFORE HIS TIME. Well, that was one way to put it. Somebody had left flowers, 

quite recently. Roses. The petals were dead and withered, but there was still a 

little color in the leaves. Who had been here? Jack? And if it was her, why hadn‟t 

she mentioned it to him? 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Alex bent down and swept the plants to one side. He thought about the man who 

had looked after him all his life but who had been gone now for almost a year. He 

could still picture Ian Rider—halfway up a mountain, on a diving boat in full scuba 

gear, or racing on Jet Skis over the South China Sea. He had taken Alex all over 

the world, always challenging him, pushing him to the limit. Adventure vacations, he 

had called them. And how could Alex have known that all that time he was being 

trained, prepared to follow in his uncle‟s footsteps? 

Footsteps that had brought him here. 

“Alex Rider?” 

They must have crept up behind him while he was crouching beside the grave, and 

even without looking up, Alex knew that somehow he was in trouble. There was 

something about the voice—soft and threatening, with a slight foreign inflection. 

Slowly, Alex turned and looked up. Sure enough, there were three men standing at 

the foot of the grave, all of them Chinese, dressed in jeans and loose-fitting 

jackets. They were completely relaxed, as if they had strolled into the cemetery 

and come upon him by chance. But Alex knew that wasn‟t the case. They might have 

followed him from school. They might have known that he sometimes took this 

shortcut and waited for him. But there was nothing chance about this meeting. 

They were here for one single purpose. 

“I‟m sorry,” Alex said. “My name is James Hale. You‟ve got the wrong person.” 

Even as he spoke, he was glancing left and right. There was nobody else around. No 

passing vicar, no other kids from Brookland on their way home. Apart from his 

backpack, Alex had nothing with him. He knew he wasn‟t going to find any weapons 

in a cemetery, but there was always a chance that a gravedigger had been careless 

enough to leave behind a spade. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He was out of luck. There was an open grave, waiting for its occupant, about a 

dozen headstones away. But there was no sign of any tools. What else? A small 

stone angel stood above him, a monument to “a great dad, a much-missed granddad 

and a wonderful husband.” Why did no one ever have anything bad to say about 

people who had died? 

The nearest man smiled unpleasantly, revealing nicotine-stained teeth. “You are 

Alex Rider,” he insisted. “This is the grave of your uncle.” 

“You‟re wrong. He used to live next door . . .” 

Just for a moment, the three men hesitated, wondering if, after all, they had made 

a mistake. But then the leader made up his mind. “You will come with us,” he said. 

“Why? Where do you want to take me?” 

“No more questions. Just come!” 

Alex remained where he was, crouching beside the gravestone. He wondered what 

would happen next. He quickly found out. The man who had spoken made a signal, 

and suddenly all three of them were armed. The knives had appeared in their hands 

like some unpleasant magic trick. Alex examined the silver blades, one in front of 

him, one on either side. They were notched, designed to leave the most vicious 

wounds. Somehow the men had gotten into position, surrounding Alex, without 

seeming to move. They were standing in combat stance, the weight spread evenly 

over their feet, each knife exactly the same distance from the ground. These were 

professional killers. They had done this many times before. 

“What do you want?” Alex demanded, trying to keep his voice neutral. “I don‟t have 

any money.” 

“We don‟t want money.” One of the other men spat into the grass. He had furious 

eyes, lips twisted into a permanent sneer. 

“Major Winston Yu sent us to see you,” the leader said. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Winston Yu! So that was what this was about. Somehow the head of the snakehead 

that Alex had helped break up in Thailand had reached out from whatever hell he 

had been sent to. He had left instructions for revenge. 

“Major Yu is dead,” Alex said. 

“You killed him.” 

“No. The last time I saw him, he was running away. If he‟s dead, that‟s the best 

thing that ever happened to him. But it had nothing to do with me.” 

“You‟re lying.” 

“What difference does it make? He‟s finished. The whole thing‟s over. Coming after 

me isn‟t going to bring him back.” 

“You must pay for what you did.” 

They were about to make their move. Alex could almost see the knives jabbing 

forward, striking at his stomach and chest. They would leave him in the cemetery, 

bleeding to death, and the next funeral that took place here would be his. But he 

wasn‟t going to let that happen. He acted first. He was still holding the dead roses 

that he had been clearing from his uncle‟s grave. He could feel the sharp thorns 

digging into the palm of his hand. 

Swinging his arm up, Alex threw them, scattering them across the first man‟s face. 

For just a second, the man was blinded, in pain, the thorns cutting into him. A single 

dead rose clutched at the skin under one of his eyes. Alex sprang up, then followed 

through with a powerful back kick, the ball of his foot ramming into the man‟s 

stomach. The man‟s eyes widened in shock and he crumpled, gasping for breath. 

That left just two. 

They were already lunging toward him. Alex had to get out of their range, and 

there was only one way. He threw himself sideways, one hand down, cartwheeling 

over Ian Rider‟s gravestone. He needed a weapon and he snatched up the only one 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

he could see—the stone angel from the grave next to his uncle‟s. He hoped the 

much-missed granddad wouldn‟t mind. The angel was heavy. Alex swung it around 

and hurled it at one of the men. It hit him in the face, breaking his nose. Blood 

poured over the man‟s lips and he reeled away, howling. 

The last of the three men swore in Chinese and launched himself toward Alex, the 

knife swinging in great arcs, cutting at the air. Alex fled. With his attacker getting 

closer all the time, he ran over six of the graves, then leapt over the open trench. 

But the moment he landed, he stopped and turned around. The man had also 

jumped. He had been taken completely by surprise. He had expected Alex to keep 

running. Instead, he was in midair while Alex had both feet firmly planted on the 

ground. There was nothing he could do as Alex lashed out with a front jab—the 

kizami-zuki he had been taught in karate—leaning with all his weight forward for 

maximum reach. 

Alex‟s fist caught the man in the throat. The man‟s eyes went white and he plunged 

down like a stone, disappearing into the grave. He hit the mud at the bottom and 

lay still. 

The first man was now on his knees, wheezing, barely able to breathe. The second 

was still bleeding. Alex alone was unhurt. So what should he do now? Call the police 

on his mobile? No. The last thing he needed right now was a load of tricky 

questions. 

He went back to Ian Rider‟s grave, snatched up his backpack, and walked away. But 

even as he went, there were questions of his own nagging at his mind. If Major Yu 

had given orders for him to be killed, why hadn‟t they just gone ahead and done it? 

They could have tiptoed up behind him and stabbed him. Why had they felt the 

need to announce themselves? And for that matter, why had none of them been 

carrying a gun? Wouldn‟t that have made the whole thing easier? 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

As Alex left the cemetery, he didn‟t see the fourth man, fifty yards away, hiding 

behind one of the Victorian mausoleums. This was an Englishman or an American, 

with fair hair hanging down to his neck, smiling to himself as he watched Alex 

through the 135mm telephoto lens that was attached to the Nikon D3 digital 

camera he was holding. He had taken more than a hundred shots of the encounter, 

clicking away at a rate of nine frames per second, but he took a few more, just for 

good measure. Click. Alex dusting himself down. Click. Alex turning away. Click. Alex 

heading for the main gate. 

He had it all recorded. It was perfect. The man had been chewing gum, but now he 

took it out of his mouth, rolled it into a ball, and pressed it against one of the 

grave-stones. Click. One final shot of Alex leaving the cemetery and the whole 

thing was in the bag. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

7 

 

BAD NEWS 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

ALEX WAS HAVING DINNER with Jack when the doorbell rang. 

“Are you expecting anyone?” she asked. 

“No.” 

The doorbell sounded again, longer and more insistent. This time Jack put down her 

knife and fork and frowned. “I‟ll get it,” she said. “But why do they have to come at 

this time of night?” 

It was half past seven in the evening. Alex had come home, changed, done his 

homework, and had a shower. He was sitting at the kitchen table of the Chelsea 

home that had once belonged to Ian Rider but which he and Jack now shared. He 

was wearing jeans and an old sweat-shirt. His hair was still damp and his feet were 

bare. Jack liked to call herself a ten-minute cook because that was the maximum 

amount of time she spent preparing a meal. Tonight she had served a homemade 

fish pie, although Alex suspected she had cheated on the time. 

He was feeling guilty. He hadn‟t told her yet about the fight at the cemetery, 

partly because he was waiting for the right moment, partly because he knew what 

she would say. There was no way that he could keep something like that from her, 

but he wasn‟t keen on ruining the evening. 

He heard voices out in the hall—a man speaking, polite but insistent. Jack arguing. 

There was a pause, then Jack returned on her own. Alex could see at once that she 

was concerned. 

“There‟s someone here who wants to see you,” she said. 

“Who is it?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“He says his name is Harry Bulman.” 

Alex shook his head. “I‟ve never heard of him.” 

“Then let me introduce myself . . .” 

A man had appeared at the kitchen door behind Jack, strolling into the room, 

looking around him at the same time. He was in his thirties, with long, blond hair 

falling in a tangle, broad shoulders, and a thick neck. He was handsome—but not 

quite as handsome as he thought. There was an arrogance about him that 

presented itself in every move he made, even the way he had followed Jack in. He 

was dressed nicely in gray slacks, a black blazer, and a white shirt open at the 

collar. He had a gold chain around his neck and a gold signet ring with the letters 

HB on his third finger. To Alex, it was as if he had stepped out of an 

advertisement for clothes . . . or perhaps for toothpaste. This was a man who 

enjoyed being himself and wanted to sell himself to the world. 

Jack spun around. “I don‟t remember inviting you in.”. 

“Please. Don‟t ask me to wait outside. If you want the truth, I‟ve been waiting for 

this moment for quite a long time.” He looked past Jack. “It‟s a great pleasure to 

meet you, Alex.” 

Alex slid his food aside. “Who are you?” he demanded. 

“Do you mind if I sit down?” 

“You don‟t need to sit down,” Jack growled. “You‟re not staying long.” 

“You might change your mind when you hear what I‟ve got to say.” The man sat 

down anyway. He was at the head of the table, opposite Alex. “My name is Harry 

Bulman,” he said. “I‟m sorry I‟ve come by so late, but I know you‟re at school, 

Alex—at Brookland—and I wanted to catch you while you were both in.” 

“What do you want?” Alex asked. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Well, right now, I could murder a beer if there‟s one going.” Nobody moved. “Okay. 

I‟ll get to the point. I‟ve come here to speak to you, Alex. As a matter of fact, 

although you won‟t believe it, I want to help you. I hope the two of us are going to 

be seeing quite a bit of each other. I think we‟re going to become friends.” 

“I don‟t need any help,” Alex said. 

Bulman smiled. His teeth were as white as his shirt. “You haven‟t heard what I‟ve 

got to say.” 

“Then why don‟t you get on with it?” Jack cut in. “Because we were having supper 

and we didn‟t want to be disturbed.” 

“Smells good.” Bulman drew a business card out of his wallet and slid it across the 

table. Jack came over and sat next to Alex. They both read it. There was the 

name—Harry Bulman—and beneath it his job description: Freelance Journalist. 

There was also an address in north London and a telephone number. 

“You work for the press,” Jack said. 

“The Mirror, the Express, the Star . . .” Bulman nodded. “If you ask around, you‟ll 

find I‟m fairly well known.” 

“What are you doing here?” Alex asked. “You said you could help me. I don‟t need a 

journalist.” 

“As a matter of fact, you do.” Bulman took out a packet of chewing gum. “Do you 

mind?” he asked. “I‟ve given up smoking and I find this helps.” He unwrapped a piece 

and curled it into his mouth. He looked around again. “This is a nice place you‟ve got 

here.” 

“Please get on with it, Mr. Bulman.” 

Alex could hear that Jack was running out of patience. But the journalist had 

already outmaneuvered them twice. He had simply walked in here, and for the 

moment neither of them was asking him to leave. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“All right. Let‟s cut to the chase.” Bulman rested his elbows on the table and leaned 

forward. “You might not know this, but many journalists have a specialist area. It 

might be food, sports, politics . . . whatever. My specialty is intelligence. I spent six 

years in the army—I was in the commandos—and I hung on to my old contacts when 

I left. I always figured they might come in handy. I was actually thinking about 

writing a book, but that didn‟t work out, so I started touting myself around Fleet 

Street. MI5, MI6, CIA . . . any bits of gossip I managed to pick up, I‟d string 

together as a story. It wasn‟t going to make me rich. But I did okay.” 

Alex and Jack were listening to this in silence. Neither of them liked the way it 

was going. 

“And then, a couple of months ago, I started to hear these strange rumors. They 

began with an event that took place at the Science Museum last April, when Herod 

Sayle was about to launch his Stormbreaker computer system. What happened to 

the Stormbreakers, by the way? There was going to be one in every school in the 

country, but suddenly they were recalled and that was that. They were never seen 

again.” 

He waited for a response, but Alex simply met his questioning gaze with silence. 

“Anyway, back to the Science Museum. It seems that someone, an agent of MI6 

Special Operations, parachuted through the roof and took a shot at Sayle. No 

name. No pack drill. Nothing unusual about that. But then I was talking to a mate in 

a pub, and he told me that the bloke at the end of the parachute wasn‟t a man at 

all. It was a boy. He swore to me that Special Operations had gone out and 

recruited a fourteen-year-old and that this was their latest secret weapon. 

“Of course, I didn‟t believe it at first. But I decided to have a nose around, so I 

started asking questions. And do you know what? It all turned out to be true. MI6 

had taken some poor bloody kid, trained him up with the SAS in the Lake District, 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

and sent him out on active service no less than three times. It took me a while 

longer to find out the name of this boy wonder. In the SAS, he was known as „Cub.‟ 

But I persisted . . . I‟m not so bad at this job . . . and in the end I got what I 

wanted. Alex Rider. That‟s you.” 

“I don‟t know what you‟re talking about,” Alex said. 

“You‟re making a mistake, Mr. Bulman,” Jack added. “Your story is ridiculous. Alex is 

still at school.” 

“Alex is still at Brookland,” Bulman agreed. “But according to the school secretary, 

a very nice lady named Miss Bedfordshire, he‟s been away an awful lot recently. 

Don‟t blame her, by the way. She didn‟t know I was a journalist. I pretended I was 

calling from the local council. But let me see . . .” 

Bulman took out a notebook. 

“You were away for the first time last April. You were also away at the end of last 

year. That would have been at exactly the same time that a teenage boy dropped in 

on an oil rig in the Timor Sea, fighting alongside the Australian SAS. And who was 

that kid at Heathrow Airport when Damian Cray had a nasty accident in a jumbo 

jet? Now there‟s a funny thing, isn‟t it? An international pop singer one minute—a 

multimillionaire—and the next minute the papers are announcing that he‟s had a 

heart attack. Well, I suppose I‟d have a heart attack too if someone pushed me 

into the turbine of a plane.” Bulman snapped the notebook shut. “Nobody‟s been 

allowed to write anything about any of this. National security and all the rest of it. 

But I‟ve spoken to people who were at the Science Museum, at Heathrow, and in 

Australia.” He fixed his eyes on Alex. “And they‟ve all described you to a T.” 

There was a long silence. Jack‟s fish pie had gone cold. Alex was stunned. He had 

always supposed MI6 would protect him from publicity. He had never expected a 

journalist to turn up at his own home. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Jack was the first to speak. “You‟ve got it all wrong,” she said. “Alex took a bit of 

time off last term because he was sick. You can‟t possibly think—” 

“Please don‟t treat me like an idiot, Miss Starbright,” Bulman cut in, and suddenly 

there was steel in his voice. “I‟ve done my homework. I know everything. So why 

don‟t you stop wasting my time and face up to the facts?” He reached into his 

jacket pocket and took out a bunch of photographs. Alex winced. He guessed what 

was coming even before the journalist spread them on the table. And he was right. 

The pictures had been taken just a few hours before in Brompton Cemetery. They 

showed Alex in action against the three men who had attacked him, kicking out in 

one frame, spinning over the gravestone in another. 

“When were these taken?” Jack asked. She was obviously shaken. 

“This afternoon,” Alex replied. “They followed me from school and came up to me in 

the cemetery.” He looked accusingly at Bulman. “You set it all up.” 

The journalist nodded. “Believe me, Alex. They weren‟t going to hurt you. But I had 

to be one hundred percent certain. I wanted to see you in action for myself. And I 

have to say, you more than lived up to your reputation. In fact, I‟m going to have to 

pay my people double what I promised them. You put two of them into the hospital! 

Oh . . . and there‟s something else you should know about.” 

Bulman produced a miniature tape recorder and pressed a button. At once, Alex 

heard his own voice, a little tinny and distant, but definitely him. 

“Major Yu is dead.” 

“You killed him.” 

“No. The last time I saw him, he was running away. . . .” 

“All three of them were wired up for sound.” Bulman flicked the tape off. “You 

knew all about the snakehead, so don‟t play innocent with me. By the way, I never 

found out how Major Yu died. I‟d be interested to know how it happened.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Alex glanced at Jack. They both knew there was no point denying it anymore. 

“What exactly do you want?” he demanded. 

“Well, we could start with that beer I was talking about.” 

Jack stiffened. Then she stood up, went to the fridge, and took out a can of beer. 

She gave it to the journalist without a glass, but he didn‟t seem to mind. He 

cracked it open and drank. 

“Thank you, Jack,” he said, all pretense of formality gone. “Look . . . I can tell you‟re 

both a bit thrown by this, and I can understand that, but you‟ve got to remember 

what I said when I first came in. I‟m on your side. In fact, I want to help you.” 

“Help me . . . how?” 

“By telling your story.” Bulman held a hand up before Alex could interrupt. “Wait a 

minute. Just hear me out.” He had obviously rehearsed what he was about to say. 

“First of all, I think what‟s happened to you is an outrage. It‟s more than that. It‟s 

a national scandal. In case you hadn‟t noticed, the law says that you can‟t join the 

army until you‟re sixteen . . . and only after you‟ve taken your school exams. So the 

idea that MI6 can just stroll along and use a kid like you quite frankly beggars 

belief. Did you volunteer?” 

Alex said nothing. 

“It doesn‟t matter. We can get to all that later. But the point is this: When this 

gets out, heads are going to roll. The way I see it, you‟re the victim in all this, Alex. 

Don‟t get me wrong. You‟re also a hero. If even half what I‟ve heard about you is 

true, then what you‟ve done is absolutely amazing. But it should never have been 

allowed to happen, and I think people are going to be horrified when the story 

breaks.” 

“The story will never break,” Jack muttered. “MI6 won‟t let you write it.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I‟m sure they‟ll try to stop me. But this is the twenty-first century, Jack, and it‟s 

not so easy anymore. You think the Americans wanted anyone to know about the 

torture practices carried out in the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq? Or what about all 

the British members of Parliament who were trying to hide their crooked 

expenses? There are no secrets these days. If they stop me from going to the 

newspapers, I can put it on the Internet, and once the story‟s broken, the press 

will come running. You‟ll see. And if we keep it exclusive—if we go to the Sunday 

Times or the Telegraph—we‟ll clean up. 

“But it‟s not just about the newspapers. The way I see it, there‟s a book in this. It 

shouldn‟t take more than three months to write, and it‟ll sell all over the world. 

Tony Blair was offered six million for his memoirs, which nobody even wants to 

read. I reckon we could make ten times that amount. Then there‟ll be syndication in 

the world press, exclusive interviews—Oprah Winfrey will pay a million alone—and 

almost certainly a bidding war for the rights to make a major Hollywood film. 

You‟re going to be the most famous person in the world, Alex. Everyone is going to 

want a piece of you.” 

“And who gets the money?” Jack asked. She already knew the answer. 

“We‟ll come to an agreement, Jack. Whatever you may think of me, I‟m not greedy, 

and there‟s going to be more than enough to go around. Fifty-fifty! Alex will tell me 

the full story and I‟ll write it down. I‟ve got all the contacts . . . publishers, lawyers, 

that sort of thing. In a way, I‟ll be Alex‟s manager, and I promise you I‟ll look after 

him. Like I said, I‟m a fan. And after what he‟s been through, he deserves to rake 

it in. From what I hear, MI6 hasn‟t even paid him a regular salary. Now that‟s what 

I call exploitation.” 

“Suppose I‟m not interested,” Alex said. “Suppose I don‟t want the story to be 

told.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Bulman drank more of his beer. The chewing gum was still in his mouth. “It‟s too 

late for that now, Alex,” he explained. “It‟s going to happen anyway. The story‟s out 

there and someone‟s going to write it, even if I don‟t. If you sit back and refuse to 

cooperate, it‟ll only make it worse. You‟ll have to live with what people say about you 

and you won‟t get a chance to set down your own side of what happened. 

“But in a way, if you don‟t mind my saying so, you‟re lucky that you‟ve got me in the 

driver‟s seat. You think anyone else would offer you equal partnership? In fact, 

most other journalists would have just gone ahead and broken the news without 

even coming here. I can imagine you‟re probably a bit confused right now, and I‟m 

sorry I pulled that stunt on you in the cemetery. But believe me, once you get to 

know me better, we‟re going to be friends. I‟m a professional. I know what I‟m 

doing.” 

Bulman finished his beer and crumpled the can. Alex didn‟t know what to say. Too 

many thoughts were going through his head. 

Fortunately, Jack was never at a loss for words. “Thank you for being so frank with 

us,” she said. “But if you don‟t mind, we‟d like a little time to think about what 

you‟ve said.” 

“Of course. I can understand that. You have my number. I can give you one week.” 

Bulman stood up. “I reckon it‟ll be quite fun, Alex. I‟ll come here every evening and 

we‟ll talk for a couple of hours. Then I‟ll write it up the next day while you‟re at 

school. You can read it over for accuracy on weekends.” He gestured at the 

photographs. “You can hang on to those. I‟ve got copies.” 

He went over to the door, then turned around one last time. 

“You‟re a real hero, Alex,” he said. “I hope I made that clear from the start. There 

aren‟t many boys your age who actually believe in their country. You‟re a patriot and 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

I respect that. I‟m really privileged to have met you.” He waved a hand. “Don‟t get 

up. I‟ll show myself out.” And then he was gone. 

Neither Jack nor Alex said anything until they heard the front door close. Then 

Jack went out to make sure the journalist had really left. Alex stayed where he 

was. He was in shock. He was trying to think of what it would all mean. He would 

become world famous. There was no doubt of that. His photograph would be in all 

the newspapers and magazines, and he would never be able to walk down the street 

again, not without being pointed out as some sort of curiosity . . . a freak. He would 

have to leave Brookland, of course. He might even have to leave the UK. He could 

say good-bye to his home, to his friends, to any chance of a normal life. 

He felt a black anger welling up inside him. How could he have allowed this to 

happen? 

Jack came back into the room. “He‟s gone,” she said. She sat down at the table. 

The photographs were still spread out in front of her. “Why didn‟t you tell me 

about the cemetery?” she asked. 

There was no accusation in her voice, but Alex knew she was upset. “I wanted to,” 

he said. “But it happened so soon after Scotland that I thought you‟d be worried.” 

“I‟d be more worried if I thought you weren‟t telling me when you were in trouble.” 

“I‟m sorry, Jack.” 

“It doesn‟t matter.” Jack gathered the photographs into a pile and placed them 

facedown. “He wasn‟t quite as clever as he thought,” she said. “He didn‟t know 

everything about you. He‟d only found out about three of your missions. And he said 

you trained in the Lake District. He got that wrong too.” 

“He knew enough,” Alex said. 

“So what are we going to do?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“We can‟t let him write this story.” Alex felt a hollow in his chest. “He doesn‟t care 

about me. He just wants to use me. He‟s going to ruin everything.” 

Jack reached out and took his hand. “Don‟t worry, Alex. We‟ll stop him.” 

“How?” Alex thought for a moment, then answered his own question. “We‟re going 

to have to go and see Mr. Blunt.” 

It was the only answer. They both knew it. There were no other options. 

“I don‟t like you going back there.” Jack was only saying what Alex was thinking. 

“Every time you set foot in that door, something bad comes out of it. I was 

beginning to think they‟d forgotten all about you. This will just remind them . . .” 

“I know. But who else is going to stop him, Jack? We need their help.” 

“They‟ve never helped you before, Alex.” 

“This time it would be in their interest. They‟re not going to want Harry Bulman 

writing about them.” Alex pushed his plate away. He had barely eaten, but he no 

longer had any appetite. “I‟ll go after school tomorrow.” 

“I‟ll come with you.” 

“Thanks.” 

He was going back. The decision had been made. But as Alex got up and helped 

clear the table, he wondered if in truth he had ever really left. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

8 

 

THE LION’S DEN 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

THE EVENING SEEMED TO have drawn in early on Liverpool Street. It was only 

half past four as Jack and Alex came out of the station, but already the 

streetlamps were on and the first commuters were on their way home, snatching 

their free newspapers without even breaking pace. There must have been a slight 

mist in the air, because it seemed to Alex that the offices were glowing 

unnaturally, the light behind the windows not quite making it to the world outside. 

Punched in the chest. 

Unable to breathe. 

The pavement, cold and hard, rushing toward him. 

This was where Alex had been shot, and he would never be able to return without 

experiencing it again. The flower seller that he saw now, standing across the road, 

the old woman coming out of the shop . . . had they been there that day? It had 

been five o‟clock, almost the same time as now, but during the summer. There was 

the roof where the sniper must have lain concealed, waiting for Alex to come out. 

He had sworn that he would never come back here, yet here he was. It was like one 

of those dreams where you keep on running but always end up in the same place. 

Trapped. 

“Are you okay?” Jack asked. She could see what was going on in his head. 

Alex pulled himself together. “It feels strange, being back.” 

“Are you sure you want to go through with this?” 

“Yes. Let‟s get it over with.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

They stopped in front of a tall, classical building that would have been just as much 

at home in New York but for the Union Jack that hung limply from a pole jutting 

out of the sixteenth floor. A set of rotating doors invited them in, and set in the 

wall to one side a brass plaque read, ROYAL & GENERAL BANK PLC. LONDON. 

Strangely, the bank was fully operational, with loan desks, cash machines, tellers, 

and clients, and Alex wondered how many people must have accounts here without 

knowing what the real purpose of the building was. The entire place belonged to the 

Special Operations Division of MI6. The bank was nothing more than a cover. And 

for that matter, how many men and women would come out of those doors, never to 

return? Alex‟s uncle had been one of them, dying for queen and country or 

whatever else motivated them. What difference did it make once you were dead? 

“Alex?” Jack was watching him anxiously, and he realized that, despite what he had 

just said, he hadn‟t moved. “The lion‟s den,” she muttered. 

“That‟s what it feels like.” 

“Come on . . .” 

They went in. 

The doors spun them from the cold reality of the city to the warmth and deception 

of a world where nothing was ever what it seemed. They were in a reception area 

with a row of elevators, a marble floor, half a dozen clocks—each one showing the 

time in a different country—and the inevitable potted plants. But there would be 

hidden cameras too. Their images would already be on the way to a central 

computer equipped with face-recognition software. And the two receptionists, 

both female and pretty, would know exactly who they were before they said a 

word. 

One of them looked up as they approached. “Can I help you?” 

“We have an appointment with Mrs. Jones.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

“Of course. Please take a seat.” 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

It was all so normal. Alex and Jack took their place on a leather sofa with a 

scattering of financial magazines on the table in front of them. Alex had come 

straight from school, so he was still in his uniform. He wondered what he must look 

like to passersby. A rich kid, perhaps, opening his first account. 

A few minutes later, one of the elevators opened and a dark-haired woman in a 

black suit stepped out. As usual, she wore very little jewelry, just a simple silver 

chain around her neck. This was Mrs. Jones, the deputy head of Special Operations 

and the second most important person in the building. Despite the impact that 

she‟d had on his life, Alex knew very little about her. She lived in an apartment in 

Clerkenwell, near the old meat market. She might have been married once. She had 

two children, but something had happened to them and they were no longer around. 

And that was it. If she‟d ever had a private life, she‟d left it behind her when she 

became a spy—and the spy was all that was left. 

“Good afternoon, Alex.” She didn‟t exactly seem pleased to see him. Her face was 

completely neutral. “How are you?” 

“I‟m fine, thank you, Mrs. Jones.” 

“We‟re ready to see you.” She turned to Jack. “I‟ll bring Alex back down in about 

half an hour.” 

Jack stood up. “I‟m coming too.” 

“I‟m afraid not. Mr. Blunt prefers to see Alex on his own.” 

“Then we‟re leaving.” 

Mrs. Jones shrugged. “That‟s your choice. But you said on the telephone that you 

needed our help.” 

“It‟s all right, Jack.” Alex could see the way this was going, and he had quickly 

made his decision. It was always possible that Alan Blunt would agree to help him—

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

but it would only be on his own terms. Any argument and Alex would be thrown out 

in the street. It had happened before. “I don‟t mind seeing them on their own if 

that‟s what they want.” 

“Are you sure?” 

“Yes.” 

Jack nodded. “All right. I‟ll wait for you here.” She glanced at the magazines. “I 

can catch up with the latest banking news.” 

Alex and Mrs. Jones walked over to the elevator, and she pressed the button for 

the sixteenth floor. Only she knew that the button had read her fingerprint and 

that if she hadn‟t been authorized to travel up, two armed guards would have been 

waiting when she arrived. She was also aware of the thermal intensifier concealed 

behind the mirror, as well as the early warning chemical detector that had been 

added recently. Even the floor was examining the soles of Alex‟s shoes. The dust 

and residue under his feet might, in certain circumstances, provide valuable 

information about where he had been. 

Mrs. Jones seemed more relaxed now that the two of them were on their own. “So, 

how is school going?” she asked. 

“Okay,” Alex said. Mrs. Jones sounded friendly enough, but he had learned to treat 

even the most casual question with suspicion. 

“And how was Scotland?” 

How had she known he had gone to Scotland for the New Year? Did she know what 

had happened there? Alex decided to put her to the test. “I had a great time,” he 

said. “I really liked Loch Arkaig. In fact, I made quite an in-depth visit.” 

Mrs. Jones didn‟t even blink. “I haven‟t been there myself.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

They arrived at the sixteenth floor and left the elevator, walking down a heavily 

carpeted corridor with doors that had numbers but no names. They stopped 

outside 1605. Mrs. Jones knocked, and without waiting for an answer, they went in. 

Alan Blunt was sitting behind his desk as if he had been there forever, as if he 

never left. He was the same gray man in the same gray suit with the same files 

open in front of him. Sometimes Alex tried to imagine the head of Special 

Operations with a wife and children, going to a film or playing sports. But he 

couldn‟t do it. Like Mrs. Jones, Blunt had no life outside these four walls. Was that 

what he had dreamed about when he was young, being locked into a job that would 

never let him go? Had he actually ever been young? 

“Sit down, Alex.” Blunt waved Alex to a chair without looking up from his 

paperwork. He wrote something down and underlined it. Alex wondered what he had 

just done. He could have been ordering extra office stationery. He could have just 

sentenced someone to death. The trouble with Blunt was that either way he would 

have shown the same lack of emotion. 

He glanced briefly at Alex. “You‟re getting taller.” He sounded disapproving—but 

that made sense. The younger and more innocent Alex looked, the more useful he 

was to MI6. 

There was a long silence. Alex took the seat he had been offered. Mrs. Jones sat 

down beside the desk. Blunt made a few last notes, the nib of his pen scratching 

against the page. At last he finished what he was doing. “I understand you have a 

problem,” he said. 

Jack hadn‟t said very much on the telephone. She‟d had enough dealings with MI6 

to know that nobody says anything important on an unsecured line. So Alex quickly 

explained what had happened: the fight in the cemetery, Harry Bulman‟s visit, the 

newspaper story he was intending to write. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He finished talking. Blunt reached out and wiped a speck of dust off the surface of 

the desk. 

“That‟s very interesting, Alex,” he said. “But I‟m not sure there‟s very much we can 

do.” 

“What?” Alex was astonished. “Why not?” 

“Well, as you‟ve often reminded us, you don‟t actually work for us. You‟re not part 

of MI6.” 

“That‟s never stopped you from using me.” 

“Perhaps not. But it‟s not our business to interfere with the freedom of the press. 

If this man, Bulman, has found out about your activities over the past year, there‟s 

not a great deal we can do. Are you asking us to arrange an accident?” 

“No!” Alex was horrified. He wondered if Blunt was even being serious. 

“Then what exactly do you have in mind?” 

Alex drew a breath. Maybe Blunt was trying to confuse him deliberately. He wasn‟t 

sure how to respond. “Do you really want him to go ahead and write this story?” he 

asked. 

“I don‟t see that it matters one way or another. We can always deny it.” 

“What about me?” 

“You can deny it too.” 

He could. But it would make no difference. Once Bulman‟s report came out, his life 

would still be in pieces. In fact, if MI6 denied the story, it would only make it 

worse. Alex would be left out in the cold. Once again, he felt a rising sense of 

anger. It was Blunt who had put him in this situation in the first place. Was he 

really going to sit back and wash his hands of the whole affair? 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

But then Mrs. Jones came to his rescue. “Maybe we could have a word with this 

journalist,” she suggested. “It might be possible to make him see things from our 

point of view.” 

“Talking to him would only compromise us,” Blunt insisted. 

“I absolutely agree. But in view of what Alex has done for us in the past . . .” She 

hesitated. “And what he might do for us in the future . . .” 

Blunt looked up, his eyes, behind the square gunmetal spectacles, locking into Alex‟s 

for the first time. “Would you ever consider coming back?” he asked. 

It was as if the thought had only just occurred to him, but suddenly Alex 

understood. Everything in this room had been rehearsed. Mrs. Jones had known he 

had been to Scotland. They knew exactly what was going on at Brookland. They 

probably even got copies of his homework. And of course, they had steered this 

conversation exactly where they wanted. These two never left anything to chance. 

“There‟s something you want,” Alex said. His voice was heavy. 

“Not at all.” Blunt drummed his fingers. Then he seemed to remember something. 

He opened a drawer in his desk and took out a file that he laid in front of him. 

“Well, since you mention it, there is one thing. But it‟s a very simple matter, Alex. 

Hardly even worthy of your talents.” 

Alex leaned forward. The file that Blunt had selected was stamped with the usual 

red letters—TOP SECRET. But there was another word written underneath it in 

black ink. Alex read it upside down. GREENFIELDS. It meant something. Where 

had he heard it before? Then he remembered and he reeled back. He almost 

wanted to laugh. How did they do it? 

Greenfields was the name of the research center that he was about to visit with 

the rest of his class. His biology teacher, Mr. Gilbert, had been talking about it 

only the day before. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“What do you know about genetic engineering?” Blunt demanded. 

“I‟ve been doing a project on it,” Alex said. “But you already know that, don‟t you?” 

“It‟s an interesting subject,” Blunt continued in a tone of voice that suggested it 

was anything but. “Genetic science can do incredible things. Grow tomatoes in the 

desert or oranges the size of melons. There‟s no question that companies like 

Greenfields could change the way we live. Of course . . .” He drew his fingers 

beneath his chin. “There are also certain dangers.” 

“Whoever controls the food chain controls the world.” Alex remembered what 

Edward Pleasure had said when they were in Scotland. 

“Exactly. Anything that puts too much power into the hands of one individual is of 

interest to us. And there is one individual working at Greenfields who is causing us 

particular concern.” 

“His name is Leonard Straik,” Mrs. Jones said. 

“Straik is the director and the chief science officer. Aged fifty-eight. Unmarried. 

He was a brilliant student, studying biology at Cambridge back in the seventies. He 

invented something called the Biolistic Particle Delivery System—also known as the 

gene gun. It uses helium pressure to fire new DNA into existing plant organisms . . . 

something like that, anyway. The long and the short of it is that thanks to Straik, 

it‟s become much easier to mass-produce GM seeds. 

“For twenty years, Straik ran his own company— Leonard Straik Diagnostics . . . or 

LSD, as it was called. It all went well for a time, but like many scientists, he was 

less brilliant when it came to business and the whole thing collapsed. Straik lost all 

his money and went freelance. Six years ago he was hired as the director of 

Greenfields, and he has been there ever since.” 

“Why are you interested in him?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Because of something that happened a few months ago.” Blunt opened the file. 

“Last November, the police got a call from a whistle-blower inside the company, a 

bio-technician by the name of Philip Masters. He said he knew something about 

Straik and wanted to talk. Given the security implications, the police passed the 

information to us and we arranged a meeting—but one day before it could take 

place, there was an accident and Masters was killed. Apparently he came into 

contact with some sort of toxic material and it poisoned his entire nervous system. 

By the time he turned up in the local morgue, he was unrecognizable.” 

“An accident . . .” 

“Exactly. It seemed a bit of a coincidence, don‟t you think?” 

“We don‟t like coincidences,” Mrs. Jones said. 

“Since then, we‟ve been taking a close look at Greenfields,” Blunt went on. “It‟s a 

major operation. As well as research and development, it‟s also one of the largest 

suppliers of genetically modified seeds in the world, using the gene gun that Straik 

pioneered. There are whole countries—in Africa and South America, for instance—

that are dependent on them. We cannot risk having a loose cannon at the center of 

an operation like that. Masters knew something about Straik. We need to know 

what it was.” 

Alex nodded. He was beginning to see where this was going. 

“We‟ve managed to put a tap on Straik‟s telephone and we intercept all the calls he 

makes on his mobile. But we need more than that.” 

“We want to get into his computers,” Mrs. Jones said. 

Blunt nodded. “There may be nothing in all this. After all, people die all the time. 

Accidents happen and there are plenty of toxic plants on the site. I understand 

Straik keeps a whole greenhouse full of them. He‟s been doing research into 

natural cures . . . antivenoms. But we have to get someone into Greenfields—and it 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

can‟t be a security guard or a maintenance engineer. That‟s exactly what he‟d be 

expecting. We have to take a different approach.” 

Alex had heard it all before. People with something to hide would always suspect an 

adult, particularly if they knew they were under surveillance. But nobody would 

think twice about a schoolboy on a class visit. Alex remembered what Mr. Gilbert 

had said. “I didn‟t think they‟d allow school visits because so much of their work is 

secretive.” But somehow they had been persuaded to make an exception for 

Brookland. Had MI6 been working quietly behind the scenes? 

“It would be easy for you to slip away from the group during your visit,” Mrs. Jones 

continued. “And it would only take you thirty seconds to download everything from 

Straik‟s computer.” 

“Won‟t it have a password?” Alex asked. “And how would I even get into his 

office?” 

“We can have a word with Smithers about all that,” Blunt replied. “But it‟s up to 

you, Alex. It seems fairly straightforward to me. We can‟t even be sure that 

Straik is up to no good. It may all be a fuss about nothing. However, it seems that 

we can do each other a favor. You agree to help us and we‟ll have a word with this 

man—Harry Bulman—and see if we can persuade him to leave you alone.” 

Blunt smiled, but Alex wasn‟t fooled. He knew exactly what was going on. If he 

refused to help, his life would be torn apart. Blunt was pretending to offer him a 

choice, knowing exactly what Alex would do. The decision had already been made. 

He should have expected it. He had agreed to walk into the lion‟s den—so he could 

hardly complain when he got scratched. 

  

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“It‟s a pleasure to see you as always, Alex,” Smithers said. “I fancy you‟ve grown a 

bit. Unless, of course, Mr. Blunt has supplied you with a pair of my new sneakers. 

I‟m rather pleased with them, I must say.” 

“Do they fire missiles?” Alex asked. 

“Oh, no. Nothing like that. They‟re for use by agents who need to change their 

appearance rapidly in the field. There‟s a hydraulic system built into the heel, and 

they can add three inches to your height.” 

“Do you have a name for them?” 

Smithers folded his arms across his ample stomach. “Pumps!” 

The two of them were sitting in Smithers‟s office on the eleventh floor. The room 

looked ordinary enough, but Alex knew that everything in sight actually disguised 

something else—from the X-ray angle floor lamp to the incinerator “out” tray. Even 

the filing cabinet concealed an elevator to the ground floor. Smithers was exactly 

as Alex remembered him. He was dressed in an old-fashioned three-piece suit that 

must have been specially tailored to fit his bulk, with a striped tie that was surely 

the old-school variety. As usual, there was a broad smile across his face and above 

his various chins. Smithers was the one agent in MI6 that Alex was always pleased 

to see. He was also the only person Alex trusted. 

“So I understand you‟re going to look into Greenfields for us,” Smithers continued. 

“Very good of you, Alex. I‟m always amazed how helpful you are.” 

“Well, Mr. Blunt is very persuasive.” 

“That‟s certainly true. At least it shouldn‟t be too dangerous this time . . . although 

do look out. That chap Masters was a bit of a mess. He‟d definitely trodden on 

something that he shouldn‟t—so just make sure you look where you‟re going.” 

Smithers coughed, realizing that he‟d said too much, and continued hastily. “I‟m 

sure no one will even notice you.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“How do I get into Straik‟s office?” Alex asked. 

“I‟ve got a few things for you right here.” Smithers opened a drawer in his desk 

and took out an old-fashioned pencil case. It was made of tin, slightly battered, 

decorated with a picture of the Simpsons . . . the sort of thing he might have been 

given for Christmas three or four years ago. “It‟s very unlikely that you‟ll be 

searched,” Smithers explained. “But we know Greenfields has a very efficient 

security system, so better safe than sorry.” 

He pushed the case forward. “The tin is rather clever,” he explained. “I actually 

developed it for international air travel. It has a lead lining so it won‟t show any of 

the hidden circuitry if it passes through an X-ray machine. But at the same time, 

there are silhouettes of pens and rulers fused inside the lid, and if the tin is 

scanned, they‟ll show up as ghost images. You could carry anything you wanted 

inside and nobody would notice.” 

He opened the tin. Alex was surprised that it actually did contain pens and rulers—

along with other pieces of school equipment. “Since this is a school trip, I‟ve 

concealed all the gadgets inside things you might reasonably be expected to have 

with you,” Smithers said. He picked out a rather large eraser with a pudgy finger 

and thumb. “The memory stick that you‟ll need for Straik‟s computer is inside this. 

Just tear open the eraser and plug it in. You won‟t need passwords or anything like 

that. It‟s completely automatic. In thirty seconds, everything that‟s inside the 

computer will be on the drive‟s memory.” 

He took out a library card. It was already stamped with Alex‟s name and had a 

magnetic strip on the back. “Straik‟s office will almost certainly be locked. This will 

get you in. It looks like a library card, but actually it‟s an all-purpose swipe card.” 

He lifted the tin and for the first time Alex noticed a narrow slot near the 

bottom. “You take the library card and you swipe any door that you want to open. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Then you feed it into the tin. There‟s a miniaturized flux reversal system hidden in 

the bottom. It will work out the code you need and reprogram the card. These are 

now standard equipment for all MI6 agents, although this is the first time I‟ve 

hidden one in the bottom of a Simpsons pencil case!” 

“How do I find Straik‟s office?” Alex asked. 

“I‟m working on that, Alex. Greenfields is a big place, and I doubt there‟ll be signs. 

But I‟ve got a rather neat idea and I‟ll send it to you later.” 

Alex picked up a pencil sharpener. “What does this do?” 

“It sharpens pencils.” Smithers reached out for it. “But it also converts into a 

knife. It‟s tiny, of course, but the blade is diamond edged and will cut through 

almost anything. No need to worry about closed-circuit TV cameras. . . .” He took 

what looked like a small pocket calculator out of the tin. “Just press the plus 

button three times and it will send out a square wave frequency signal, which 

should jam any transmissions within fifty yards. On the subject of jam, it‟s almost 

time for tea. Would you like some?” 

“No, thanks.” Alex took the calculator. “Does it do anything else?” 

“As a matter of fact, it‟s also an extremely sophisticated communications device. 

Press 911 and you can talk directly to us. It‟ll work anywhere in the world.” 

“911,” Alex muttered. “In case of emergencies . . .” 

Smithers smiled. “And finally, I know you like your explosions, Alex, so you‟ll enjoy 

this.” He took the last two items out of the tin. 

“They look like pens,” Alex said. 

“Yes, they do. They‟re gel-ink pens . . . but the gel in this instance is short for 

gelignite.” Smithers held them in front of him. “There are two colors here. The red 

one is much more powerful than the black one. Remember that. It‟s the difference 

between blowing a door off its hinges and blowing the lock off a door. They both 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

have time fuses concealed in the cap. Twist once for fifteen seconds, then pull the 

plunger upward to activate. You have a delay of up to two minutes. They‟re also 

magnetic. And, of course, they write.” 

He put everything back into the tin and closed the lid. 

“There you are, old chap. Everything you need . . . nice and neat. I‟m sure this 

mission is going to be a piece of cake—which reminds me once again that it really is 

time for tea. Are you sure you won‟t join me?” 

“No, thanks, Mr. Smithers.” Alex took the pencil case and got to his feet. “I‟ll see 

you.” 

“I‟m sure you will, Alex. I don‟t know what it is about you, but you just don‟t seem 

able to stay away. Take care—and do come and see me again soon.” 

  

Back on the sixteenth floor, Alan Blunt was still behind his desk, listening as Mrs. 

Jones read from a report. It had been printed and handed to her only minutes 

before. There were just two pages: a black-and-white photograph followed by 

about fifty lines of text. 

“Harry Bulman,” she was saying. “Educated at Eton. Expelled when he was sixteen. 

Drugs. He went into the army, and it‟s true what he told Alex. He actually made it 

into the commandos, but they threw him out. Dishonor able discharge for 

cowardice. His unit came under attack in Afghanistan and he was found buried in a 

sand dune. He was hiding. After that, he managed to get odd jobs in journalism. 

Writing about defense issues some of the time, but mainly it was just smut. Three-

in-a-bed headlines and that sort of thing. Married and divorced. No children. Lives 

in north London. Thirty-seven years old.” 

There was a brief silence as Blunt took this in. Nothing showed behind his eyes, but 

Mrs. Jones knew that he would be considering every possibility and that within 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

seconds he would have come up with a plan of attack. This was his great strength. 

It was the reason why he had headed up Special Operations for so long. 

“Invisible Man,” he said. He had made his decision. “We‟ll give it to Crawley. He 

hasn‟t been out in the field for a while. He‟ll enjoy it.” 

“Right.” There was a shredder beside the desk. Mrs. Jones fed her copy of the 

report into it and the blades began to rotate. Harry Bulman was looking out from 

the photograph. There was a half smile on his face, as if he was pleased with 

himself. Slowly, he disappeared into the machine, sliced into ribbons, dropping into 

the bin below. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

9 

 

INVISIBLE MAN 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

THERE WERE AT LEAST TEN THOUSAND GUESTS in the auditorium and they 

were all applauding. Harry Bulman made his way through the crowd, occasionally 

pausing to shake hands and to receive congratulations from people he didn‟t even 

know. Ahead of him, the stage beckoned. A dozen golden statuettes stood in a line 

and one of them had his name on it: Journalist of the Year. It was glimmering in 

the spotlight, twice the size of any of the others, and as he walked toward it, it 

seemed to grow even bigger. At the same time, a bell began to ring and . . . 

He woke up. It was eight o‟clock in the morning and his alarm had just gone off. 

It had been a dream, of course, but a very pleasant one—and Bulman had no doubt 

that very soon it would become a reality. 

He was going to be famous. Newspaper editors who were usually too busy to give 

him the time of day would be lining up to employ him. There would be television talk 

shows, celebrity parties, lots of awards. It occurred to him that maybe he had 

been a little too generous offering Alex fifty percent of his earnings. After all, he 

was the one doing all the work. It was his story. Maybe forty or even thirty 

percent would have been closer to the mark. In fact, at the end of the day, the 

journalist didn‟t need to pay him anything at all. It wasn‟t as if Alex could do 

anything about it. 

It was incredible, really, that the two of them had finally met. Bulman remembered 

the first time he had heard the story of a teenage spy. It had been in a pub, the 

Crown on Fleet Street, a late-night drinking session with an old friend in the police 

who had been at the Science Museum when the parachutist came through the roof. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He hadn‟t believed it then, but something had told him to stick with it, and very 

soon he had found himself on what had become nothing less than a quest. He had 

spent months doggedly following leads that had gone nowhere, meeting contacts 

who had clammed up at the last moment, calling in favors, and, when necessary, 

making threats. Piece by piece he had put the story together. And in the end it had 

led him to Alex. 

Bulman slept in a circular bed with black silk sheets on the top floor of a modern 

block of apartments in Chalk Farm. His bedroom had views of the railway lines 

leading into Euston Station. The place had been built only twenty years ago but 

already there were cracks appearing, maybe because of the vibrations from the 

trains. One was passing now. When he had first moved in here, the grinding wheels 

used to wake him up, but he had soon grown used to it. Now he quite liked it. He 

wouldn‟t have been able to afford the place if it had been anywhere quieter. 

It was the start of a new week. Seven days since he had been in Alex‟s Chelsea 

flat. In the end, he had decided to give the boy time to work things out and to 

recognize he had no alternative but to work with him. He and that housekeeper of 

his would have talked things over and probably blamed each other for what had 

happened. Now that he thought about it, maybe that was another interesting angle. 

The girl—Jack—was quite pretty. What was she doing, living with a fourteen-year-

old boy? The National Enquirer would like that! Well, this afternoon Bulman would 

go back. He would be there waiting with a glass of white wine and a digital recorder 

when Alex finished school. 

He threw back the covers and went into the kitchen, where the plates from dinner 

last night—and the night before—were still stacked up in the sink. Bulman enjoyed 

good food, but he couldn‟t be bothered to cook for himself and the packaging from 

frozen meals was spilling out of the garbage. He found a clean mug and made 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

himself a coffee, glancing at the newspaper articles that were pinned to a 

corkboard above the sink. “Secrets of Army‟s Basra Breakfast.” “Intelligence Chief 

Appears on Face-book.” “SAS Commander Misses Flight.” He wasn‟t proud of his 

work. Nobody took much notice of what he wrote, and the stories were always 

nearer the back of the paper than the front. What did it matter, anyway? They 

were read and then forgotten . . . if they were read at all. 

That would all change soon. 

Bulman opened the fridge. He took out the milk and sniffed it. It was sour. He 

poured it into the sink and drank his coffee black. What was he going to do until 

four o‟clock? It was a beautiful day, a cold January sun glinting off the railway 

tracks. He watched a second train rumble past on its way into town, packed with 

commuters on their way to their boring jobs. He could almost imagine them, 

squashed into the newspapers they were trying to read. A month from now, those 

newspapers would belong to him. 

A late breakfast. Shopping. A couple of beers at the Groucho Club in Soho. He 

mapped out his day as he got dressed in his usual open-neck shirt, blazer, and 

slacks. He never wore jeans. He liked to look stylish. He fastened the shirt with 

brightly polished silver cuff links, each one decorated with a miniature engraving 

of the Fairbairn-Sykes dagger, used by the commandos since the Second World 

War. Finally, he scooped up the briefcase that he always carried with him, grabbed 

his wallet from the bedside table, finished his coffee, and went out. 

There was a newsstand opposite the apartment with a display showing the morning 

headlines. “Journalist Killed.” He couldn‟t help smiling as he read the words. He 

wondered if it was somebody he knew, probably taking a bullet in Afghanistan or 

somewhere else in the Middle East. He had often tried to get himself sent abroad 

(“. . . our man, Harry Bulman, entrenched with the allied forces in Iraq . . .”), but 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

none of the editors had been interested. Well, serves the guy right, whoever he 

was. Probably some stupid amateur who didn‟t know when to duck. 

He was about to cross the road and buy the paper when he remembered that he 

had used the last of his change down at the pub the night before. He‟d been 

drinking with a couple of freelance journalists and somehow they‟d all ended up 

around the slot machine, shoveling coins in. At one stage he‟d won more than 

twenty-five dollars, but of course he‟d put it all back in again and lost it. That was 

his problem. He never knew when to stop. He took out his wallet and opened it. All 

he had was a couple of credit cards. He had no money at all. 

The nearest cash machine was at the traffic lights on the other side of Camden 

Market. Bulman thought about walking, but as luck would have it, a bus appeared at 

that exact moment, rumbling toward him down the hill. At least he had his pass . . . 

it was valid for any subway or bus in London. He hurried over to the bus stop, 

arriving just as the driver pulled in and the doors hissed open. A couple of people 

got on ahead of him, but then it was his turn. He pressed his card against the 

scanner. The machine made a discouraging sound. 

“I‟m sorry, mate,” the driver said. “You‟ve got nothing left on your card.” 

“That‟s not possible,” Bulman replied. “I took the subway last night and I had about 

thirty dollars left on it.” 

“Well, it‟s showing zero now.” The driver pointed at the screen. 

“Your machine must be broken.” 

“It worked for everyone else.” 

Bulman held his card against the screen for a second time—but with the same 

result. He glanced around. The bus was crowded with people waiting to move off. 

They were all watching him impatiently. “All right.” He scowled. “I‟ll give you the 

cash.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

But even as he reached into his pocket, he remembered that he didn‟t have any 

cash. The driver was glaring at him now. Bulman gave up. The bank was only a quick 

walk away. The sun was shining. “Forget it,” he muttered. “I‟ll walk.” 

He stepped back onto the sidewalk. The doors closed and the bus moved off. 

Bulman was still holding his travel pass. He glared at it. When he had a spare 

minute, he would send a letter to Transport for London to complain. Maybe he 

would even write a newspaper article about his experience. Idiots. Why couldn‟t 

they get the technology to work? 

It took him ten minutes to walk down to the bank, by which time it was almost nine 

o‟clock. All around him, the shops were opening. People were hurrying out of the 

coffee shops, clutching their oversized cups, then disappearing into their offices . . 

. another busy London day. Propping his briefcase under his arm, Bulman selected a 

debit card and fed it into the machine. He needed money for breakfast, to pick up 

a few groceries—and later on, he might treat himself to a taxi over to Chelsea. He 

punched in his PIN, touched the box for $50, and waited. 

The screen went black. Then a message came up. 

 

Bulman stared at the screen, then punched the Cancel button to get his card back. 

Nothing happened. Not only was the machine refusing to give him any money, it had 

decided to keep his card! There was nothing wrong with the account, he was sure 

of it. The last time he‟d looked, he‟d had over four hundred dollars in it. Someone 

must have vandalized the ATM, some lout who‟d had too much to drink. 

He‟d have to find another cash machine and use his credit card for a cash advance. 

He walked only a block before finding one. Very cautiously, he typed in his PIN, 

taking care not to make any mistakes. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The same thing happened. A blank screen. A stark white message. His card was 

swallowed up. 

He swore. A couple of people had lined up to use the same machine and they were 

looking at him with a sort of pity, as if they imagined that he was broke, that there 

was nothing in his account. What was he to do now? He was angry, humiliated, and 

hungry—he needed breakfast. He had no money and no way to travel. 

Unless, of course, he used his car. Bulman had a secondhand Volkswagen parked 

around the corner from his apartment. He didn‟t often use it during the day—there 

was far too much traffic in London for his taste—but he sometimes drove it at 

night, and he kept a spare twenty-dollar bill in the glove compartment for 

emergencies. That wouldn‟t buy him much, but it was better than nothing and he 

could use it for breakfast while he waited for the bank to open. He‟d feel better 

with a bit of food inside him. Then he‟d go in to the bank and shout at the silly fat 

girl behind the teller‟s desk. (In his experience, bank tellers were always silly and 

fat.) And once it was sorted, he would get on with his day. 

He found the side street and strolled down to the spot where he‟d parked. 

The car wasn‟t there. 

Bulman stood on the sidewalk, blinking. He had the beginnings of a headache. He 

had definitely parked in this spot. He might have had a few too many drinks that 

evening—and, yes, he was probably well over the limit—but he was certain this was 

where he had left it. Now there was a blue Volvo in his space. He looked up and 

down the road. There was no sign of his Volkswagen. He forced himself to think. 

Dinner, pub, slot machine, one last drink, then home around midnight. The car had 

to be here. 

And yet it wasn‟t. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

It had been stolen! Cars were always being taken in this part of town! A lot of the 

residents had those clumsy-looking locks that fit over the steering wheel . . . but 

he had never bought one. 

He shook his head. What a day this was turning into! He‟d be in a bad mood when he 

caught up with Alex Rider later this afternoon. It would be their first session 

together—but even so, he was going to give the boy a hard time. 

First things first. Bulman took out his mobile phone to call the police. He wondered 

what number to use. This wasn‟t really an emergency, but he decided to call 911 

anyway. He thumbed the buttons and held the phone to his ear. 

Nothing. 

It wasn‟t ringing. There wasn‟t even a dial tone. Bulman brought the phone down—it 

was a brand-new BlackBerry—and examined it. 

 

This was ridiculous. He was in the middle of the city. There was always a signal 

here. He walked a few paces up the sidewalk, held the phone up, tried it at a 

different angle. The message remained the same. He squeezed the phone so tightly 

that he was almost crushing it. 

He forced himself to calm down. There was an old-fashioned telephone booth at 

the end of the road. He wouldn‟t need coins to make a 911 call. He would contact 

the police from there. 

He retraced his steps and entered the phone booth. It was plastered with 

advertisements for models and smelled of cigarette smoke and urine. At least the 

phone itself seemed to be working. He balanced his briefcase against the glass and 

made the call. 

“Which service do you require?” the operator asked him. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“My car has been stolen,” Bulman said. He was almost relieved to hear another 

human voice. “I need to speak to the police.” 

There was a pause and he was put through. 

“I‟d like to report a stolen car,” he said. “I parked it on Chilton Street last night 

and now it‟s gone.” 

“Can I have the license plate number?” It was a woman‟s voice. She didn‟t sound 

very concerned. She also spoke with a foreign accent, making him wonder if he‟d 

been rerouted to a call center abroad. 

Forcing himself not to lose his temper, he gave the license number. “KL06NZG.” 

“KL06NZG?” 

“Yes.” 

“Is that a green Mercedes SLR Coupe?” 

“No!” Bulman shut his eyes. His headache was getting worse. “It‟s a silver 

Volkswagen Golf.” 

“Can you give me the license number again?” 

Bulman repeated it, pausing between each digit. Whoever was at the other end of 

the line obviously didn‟t have much skill with computers. 

“I‟m sorry, sir.” The woman was adamant. “That number is registered to a 

Mercedes. Can I take your name?” 

“It‟s Bulman. Harold Edward Bulman.” 

“And your address?” 

He told her. 

“Could you hold a moment?” There was another silence, longer this time. Bulman was 

about to hang up when the woman came back on the line. “Mr. Bulman, how long have 

you had this car?” 

“I bought it two years ago.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I‟m afraid we have no record of that name or that address on our files.” 

This was the end. Bulman lost his temper. “Are you telling me that I don‟t know 

where I live and that I‟ve forgotten the make and the color of my own car? I‟m 

telling you, my car has been stolen. I left it here last night, and now it‟s gone.” 

“I‟m sorry, sir. The license number you‟ve given us doesn‟t match up with the 

information I have here.” 

“Well, your information is wrong.” Bulman slammed the phone down. His head was 

throbbing. 

He needed money. He felt naked without cash and he wanted to eat. He looked at 

his watch. At least that was still working. Half past nine. The banks would have 

opened by now. Bulman had plenty of ID on him, and he‟d feel better once he had a 

full wallet. He could deal with the car later. 

He turned and walked back the way he had come. Ten minutes later, he found 

himself in the local branch of his bank, talking to one of the managers who had a 

desk in the main hall. The manager was a young man, Asian, dressed in a suit, with a 

neat beard. He was clearly alarmed as this new customer came striding up to him, 

and Bulman realized that, what with all the tramping back and forth, trying to deal 

with all the events that seemed to have ganged up on him in the past hour, he must 

look half crazed. He no longer cared. 

“I need to withdraw some money,” he said. “And your machine doesn‟t seem to be 

working.” 

The manager frowned. “We haven‟t had any complaints.” 

“It doesn‟t matter. I don‟t need to use the machine. I want to withdraw some 

money from you.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Do you have a card, sir?” Bulman handed over his last remaining credit card and 

watched as the manager brought up his details on the computer. He gazed at the 

screen, perplexed. “I‟m very sorry, sir . . .” 

“Are you saying I don‟t have an account with you?” Bulman‟s voice was quavering. 

“No, sir. You used to have an account. But you closed it down a year ago. You can 

see for yourself.” He swiveled the computer around and there it was, a row of 

zeroes at the bottom of his account. Every last penny had been removed exactly 

twelve months before. 

“I never closed my account,” Bulman said. 

“Would you like me to talk to the head office? . . .” 

Yet Bulman was already gone, spinning out of the chair and making his way through 

the main door, out into the fresh air. What the hell was going on? His travel pass, 

then the bank cards, his mobile phone, his car, now his accounts . . . it was as if his 

identity was being taken from him one piece at a time. He leaned against the corner 

of the building, steadying himself, and as he stood there, a commuter hurried past, 

throwing a copy of his newspaper into a bin right in front of him, almost as if he 

wanted Bulman to see what was on the front page. 

It was a photograph of himself. 

Bulman gazed at it in horror, remembering the headline that he had seen as he 

came out of his apartment. “Journalist Killed.” He was looking at the same headline 

now. He felt the sidewalk lurching underneath him as he stepped forward and 

plucked the newspaper out. The story was very short. 

Harold Bulman, a freelance journalist who specialized in stories relating to the 

army and intelligence services, was yesterday morning found dead in his north 

London apartment. Mr. Bulman, 37, had been stabbed. Police today appealed for any 

witnesses who might have seen or heard anything between ten o‟clock and midnight 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

to come forward. Detective Chief Superintendent Stephen Leather, who is heading 

the investigation, said: “Mr. Bulman may well have made himself enemies in his line 

of work, and at this stage we are not ruling anything out.” Harold Bulman was 

unmarried and had no close family or friends. 

It was him. They were saying he was dead! How could they have made a mistake like 

that? Was this the reason why his phone wasn‟t working, why there was no money in 

his account? Suddenly it all made sense. Somehow he‟d been confused with 

somebody else. And as a result, a whole series of switches had been pulled as, 

automatically, his life was turned off. 

He had to get to a telephone. He had to talk to his editors, to the people who 

employed him. He had no money. But there was a telephone in his apartment. That 

was the answer. Bulman didn‟t want to be on the street anymore, anyway. He had 

become a non-person, an invisible man. For some reason, he felt exposed. How could 

he be sure that there wasn‟t someone out there who really did want to stab him? 

He had to get back inside. 

He was sweating by the time he got back to his apartment, and his hand shook as 

he tried to force the key into the lock. It didn‟t seem to want to go in. In the end, 

after three attempts, he realized that the key didn‟t fit. And that was impossible 

too. Wasn‟t it? He had used it only last night! But someone in the last twelve hours 

had gone out and changed the lock. 

“Let me in!” he shouted. There was nobody to listen to him. He was shouting at the 

glass door and the brickwork. “Let me in!” He kicked the door, using the sole of his 

foot. But the glass was reinforced, shatterproof, and the door was held in place by 

powerful magnetic plates. He kicked out a third time. He was screaming now. 

Anyone passing would think he was insane. 

“Are you all right, sir? Can I help you?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He hadn‟t heard the police car draw in behind him, but when he turned around, 

there were two policemen standing on the sidewalk. Bulman was glad to see them. 

After all, he‟d been trying to call them just a few minutes ago. 

“I‟m locked out,” he said. 

“Do you live here, sir?” 

“Well, obviously I live here. If I didn‟t live here, I wouldn‟t be trying to get in.” 

Bulman realized he was being rude. He tried to force a smile to his face. “I have a 

home on the top floor,” he explained. “This has never happened before . . .” 

“Can I try for you?” 

Bulman noticed that the policeman had dropped the “sir.” He handed the keys over 

and watched as the policeman tried them in the lock—also without success. The 

policeman examined the keys, then the lock. He straightened up. “You‟re not going 

to open this door with these keys,” he said. “The lock is Banham. These keys are 

Yale.” 

“But that‟s not possible . . .” 

“What‟s your name?” the second policeman asked. 

“It‟s Harry Bulman. I‟m a journalist.” 

“And you say you live here?” 

“I don‟t just say I live here. I do live here. But I‟m locked out.” 

“Just one moment, sir.” 

The first policeman was talking on his radio. Bulman passed his briefcase from one 

hand to the other. It was suddenly feeling very heavy. Considering it was only 

January, the weather was far too hot. The second policeman was looking at him 

suspiciously. He was only about nineteen years old, with light brown hair and stick-

out ears. He still had a schoolboy face. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Are you sure this is where you live?” the first policeman asked. He had finished 

his radio conversation. 

“Yes. Apartment thirty-seven. On the top floor.” 

“There was a Harold Bulman, a journalist, registered to this address, but he was 

killed two nights ago.” 

“No. That was in the newspapers. I just read it. But it‟s a mistake. I‟m Harry 

Bulman.” 

“Would you have any identification on you?” 

“Of course I have.” Bulman took out his wallet. But two of his credit cards had 

been taken by the cash machines, and he had left the third in the bank. His driver‟s 

license was in the apartment. His fingers were shaking as he fumbled through his 

wallet. “I can give you ID once I get into my home,” he said. 

The two policemen looked at each other. The younger one seemed to notice 

Bulman‟s briefcase for the first time. “What are you carrying?” he asked. 

The question took Bulman by surprise. “Why do you want to know?” he snapped. 

Before he could stop him, the first policeman had picked up the briefcase. “Do you 

mind if we look i nside?” 

“Yes. As a matter of fact, I do.” 

It was already too late. The policeman opened the briefcase and was looking at the 

contents, his face full of horror. With a sense that his whole life was draining away 

from him, Bulman leaned forward. He knew what was inside: a notepad, a couple of 

magazines, pens and pencils. 

He was wrong. The policeman was holding the case open, and Bulman could clearly 

see a kitchen knife, about fifteen inches long, the blade covered in dried blood. 

“Wait . . . ,” he began. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The two policemen acted incredibly quickly. Without even knowing quite what had 

happened, Bulman found himself facedown on the sidewalk with his arms gripped 

behind his back. He felt the metal edges of the handcuffs bite into his flesh as 

they clicked shut. The first policeman was back on his radio, talking rapidly. 

Seconds later, there was a screech of tires and another police car drew up. More 

uniformed officers surrounded him. 

“You have the right to remain silent . . .” 

Bulman realized that he was being told his rights, but the words didn‟t quite 

register. They were booming in his ears. He felt himself being picked up and 

propelled toward the car. A hand was placed on his head to stop him from banging 

against the door frame. And then he was inside, being driven away at speed. They 

had even turned the sirens on. 

An hour later, Bulman found himself alone in a bare brick interrogation room with a 

window set so high up, it showed only a small square of sky. They had taken his 

fingerprints and a swab from the inside of his mouth, which he knew would be used 

to check his DNA. There were two new officers sitting opposite him. They were 

older and more experienced than the men who had made the arrest, heavyset and 

serious. They had introduced themselves as Bennett and Ainsworth. Ainsworth 

seemed to be the senior of the two, bald, with small, hard eyes and a mouth that 

could have been drawn with a single pencil line. Bennett was slightly younger and 

looked as if he had recently been in a fistfight. He was holding a file. 

Bulman had been given a little time to collect his thoughts. He had worked out what 

he was going to say. “Listen to me,” he began. “This is all a stupid mistake. The way 

you‟ve treated me is outrageous. I am a well-known journalist, and I‟m warning you—

” 

“It‟s good to see you, Jeremy,” Bennett interrupted. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

“That‟s not my name.” 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Jeremy Harwood. Did you really think we wouldn‟t find you?” Ainsworth laid the 

file on the table and opened it. Bulman saw a black-and-white police photograph. 

Once again he recognized himself. But it had this other name underneath it. 

He drew a breath. “My name is not Jeremy Harwood. My name is Harold Bulman.” 

“Harold Bulman is dead.” 

“No.” 

“We‟ve already analyzed the blood we found on the knife in your briefcase. It‟s 

Bulman‟s. You killed him.” 

“No. You‟re making a mistake. This is all wrong.” Bulman fought for control. How 

could this nightmare be happening? 

Ainsworth flicked a page in a file. There were fingerprints—ten of them in a row—

and what looked like a chemical formula. “We‟ve checked your DNA and your 

fingerprints, Jeremy. They all match up. There‟s no need to pretend anymore.” 

“You escaped from Broadmoor two months ago,” Bennett said. 

Broadmoor? Bulman blinked heavily. That was where they sent the most dangerous 

prisoners in the country, the ones who were considered criminally insane. 

“Why did you kill Harold Bulman?” Bennett asked. 

“I . . . I . . .” Bulman tried to find the answer, but the words wouldn‟t come. 

Something had happened to his thinking process. He was aware that there were 

tears trickling down his cheeks. 

“Don‟t worry, Jeremy,” Ainsworth said. He sounded almost kind. “We‟re going to 

take you back. You‟ll be safe, locked up in your cell. You won‟t hurt anyone ever 

again.” 

“You‟ll be taken back to Broadmoor this afternoon,” Bennett added. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“No . . .” The room was spinning in ever-increasing circles. Bulman gripped the table, 

trying to slow it down. “You can‟t—” 

“We can. The arrangements have already been made.” 

The door suddenly opened and a third man came in. From the very start he didn‟t 

look anything like a policeman. He was more like a retired colonel, about fifty, with 

thinning hair and a face that was hurrying toward old age. He was wearing a suit 

that didn‟t match his brown suede shoes. “Thank you,” he said. “I‟ll take over now.” 

He didn‟t exactly radiate authority, but there was something in his voice, an edge 

of steel, that cut straight to the point. The two detectives stood up immediately 

and left. The man took their place at the table, opposite Bulman. His eyes were 

empty and cold. 

“My name is Crawley,” he said. Bulman was still crying. There were tears dripping 

out of his nose. Crawley reached into his pocket and took out a tissue. “Use this,” 

he suggested. 

Bulman wiped his nose and ran a sleeve across his eyes. 

“I work for the intelligence services,” Crawley explained. “A branch of MI6.” 

And suddenly Bulman understood. It was like being slapped across the face. MI6! 

Who else could have twisted his life out of shape with such ease? If he hadn‟t been 

so terrified, he would have been furious with himself. He should have expected 

something like this. “Alex Rider . . . ,” he rasped. 

“I‟m not saying I‟ve ever heard of Alex Rider,” Crawley responded. His voice was 

utterly flat. “But I am going to tell you this. I could snap my fingers now and a van 

would take you to a mental hospital and lock you up, and that is where you would 

spend the rest of your life. Harry Bulman would be dead and you‟d be the lunatic 

who killed him.” 

“But . . . but . . .” Bulman couldn‟t talk. He could barely breathe. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“For that matter, I could eliminate you now myself,” Crawley continued. “I actually 

know thirty-seven different ways to kill you in a manner that will look completely 

natural. Some of them are quick. Some of them hurt.” He paused. “But those are 

not my instructions. I‟ve been told to give you another chance.” 

“You bastard.” Bulman was crying again. 

“You can go home now. You can forget all about this. But if you ever go anywhere 

near Alex Rider again, if you approach any newspaper editor, if you so much as 

mention his name, we will hear about it, and next time we won‟t be so generous. We 

will wipe you off the face of the earth. Do you understand me?” 

Bulman said nothing. Crawley stood up. 

“From now on, we‟ll be watching you, Mr. Bulman,” he said. “Every minute of every 

day. Please believe me. This was just a lesson. Next time it‟ll be for real.” 

He left the room. 

Bulman stayed where he was. Alex Rider. The two words thundered through his 

head. Alex Rider. He knew that he would never write his story. His hopes of a 

major scoop had been destroyed, along with all his riches. He dragged himself to 

his feet. He was still trembling. Alex Rider. How he wished he had never heard the 

name. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

10 

 

GREENFIELDS 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

THE BUS HEADED WEST DOWN THE HIGHWAY, turning off at Junction 15, 

near Swindon. It passed through the attractive town of Marlborough, then on 

toward the vast area of empty grassland that was Salisbury Plain. 

There was nowhere quite like it in the whole of England. Three hundred square 

miles in area, it had been inhabited long before the Romans had arrived. Stone 

henge stood on its southern edge. Traces of hill forts dating back to the Iron Age 

were still dotted around. The plain was used by the army, frequently shut down for 

night exercises using tons of live ammunition. And one small part of it had been 

leased out to Greenfields for a research center that the authorities had decided 

was best kept hidden, in the middle of nowhere. 

Alex Rider was sitting in the back of the bus next to Tom Harris and James Hale. 

There were forty students from Brookland on the trip, along with two teachers—

Mr. Gilbert and a prim, slightly nervous woman named Miss Barry, who taught music 

but who had been included to help with discipline. They had been driving for over 

two hours now and the initial excitement had long since faded away, replaced by 

the dull sense of endlessness that comes with any highway journey. 

Alex took out the postcard that had arrived the day before. It showed a picture of 

the Eiffel Tower in Paris. On the back, someone had written a date—2/25—and a 

message: Paris is beautiful and fortunately we didn‟t manage to get lost. I hope you 

have a great time. The signature was unreadable, but Alex recognized Smithers‟s 

writing. He had been expecting the card, and Smithers had told him how to use it. 

He slipped it away and turned to Tom. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Can you do me a favor?” he said casually. 

“Sure. What sort of favor?” 

“While we‟re on this trip, I might have to disappear for a bit. So if there‟s any roll 

call, could you answer when you hear my name?” 

Tom frowned. He spoke quietly so his voice wouldn‟t carry above the sound of the 

engine. “The last time you asked me to cover for you, we were in Venice,” he said. 

“You‟re not doing that stuff again, are you?” 

Alex nodded gloomily. He wasn‟t going to lie to his best friend. 

“But I thought you‟d finished with all that.” 

“Yeah. Me too. But it didn‟t quite work out that way.” Alex sighed. “It‟s not 

anything dangerous, Tom. And it shouldn‟t take very long. I just don‟t want anyone 

to notice I‟m missing.” 

“Okay. Don‟t get yourself killed.” 

They had been following a series of minor roads through swathes of green 

countryside that stretched to every horizon. This wasn‟t the England of pretty 

fields and hedgerows. There was something ancient and untamed about Salisbury 

Plain. It seemed to be completely deserted, with nothing—no buildings, no fences, 

no power lines, no people—for as far as the eye could see. There were a few clumps 

of trees huddled together on the hillsides, boulders and bits of debris thrown 

carelessly around. The wind was rippling through the grass, making strange 

patterns, like silent music chasing ahead of them as they rumbled slowly toward 

the top of a hill. 

“Here it is,” James said. 

He was right. The Greenfields research facility had suddenly appeared in front of 

them, concealed in a miniature valley. It was somehow shocking after so much 

emptiness, like a glass-and-steel city, or perhaps a prison, or even a colony on 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

another planet. It certainly looked completely alien here, in the middle of 

Wiltshire. The complex was shaped like a diamond, completely surrounded by a 

fence with links so tightly meshed that it was almost like a metal wall, glinting in 

the sun. A single sliding gate, heavily guarded, stood at the end of the tarmac road. 

At least the guards didn‟t seem to be armed—but they looked threatening enough, 

even without weapons. 

“What is this place?” James muttered, staring out the window. “It seems like a lot 

of fuss for a bunch of vegetables.” 

There were about twenty buildings on the other side of the fence. Many of them 

were indeed greenhouses, but they were enormous, taller and more solid than 

anything that might be found in any garden. The rest were either offices, 

warehouses, or factories, most of them low-rise but some of them five or six 

stories high, with radio antennas, satellite dishes, and tall silver chimneys built 

onto the roofs. To one side, Alex saw what might have been a welcome center, 

sleek and white. A second building right next to the gate was square and solid with 

a sign marked SECURITY. But his eye was drawn to the construction at the very 

center of the complex. It was a huge dome, like something out of a science-fiction 

film, filled with vegetation. He could make out the leaves of palm trees licking at 

the glass, twenty or thirty yards high. Vines and knotted foliage hung down on all 

sides. It was connected to other buildings by four glass corridors, radiating out 

like points on a compass. The Biosphere, Alex thought. He didn‟t know where he had 

gotten the name from, but it seemed right. 

Greenfields looked brand-new. There was a network of black tarmac roads 

separated by perfect rectangles of freshly mown grass. Or perhaps the grass had 

been genetically programmed to grow to exactly the right height. Silent electric 

vehicles were ferrying men and women from place to place. Some of them—

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

presumably the scientists—were wearing white coats. Others were in suits. The 

guards wore green camouflage jackets, as if to remind themselves that the 

environment was what this was supposed to be all about. And everywhere, on 

dozens of poles and on the sides of every building, sophisticated cameras and light 

sensors gazed down from every angle so that if a single wasp or bee had flown in, 

someone somewhere would have known. 

There was a loud whine inside the bus as Mr. Gilbert turned on the intercom 

system. “Please don‟t be alarmed by all the security,” he said. His voice, amplified 

and relayed through the speakers, didn‟t sound very confident. “A lot of the work 

that they do here at Greenfields is sensitive. They have to protect themselves 

from competitors and from journalists and that sort of thing—and some of the 

plants they grow here have to be contained. I‟m afraid we are all going to have to 

be searched as we go in—but it shouldn‟t take long. Please remember to leave all 

cameras and mobile phones inside the bus. They‟ll be perfectly safe here, and they 

won‟t be allowed inside.” 

There were general groans and protests, but as they drew closer to the gate, 

everyone began to open their backpacks, doing as they were told. They‟d been on 

school trips before, but they weren‟t used to blank-faced guards and body 

searches. “I hope you know what you‟re doing,” Tom muttered, glancing at Alex. 

Alex didn‟t reply. “It‟s a very simple matter. Hardly worthy of your talents.”He 

remembered Blunt describing the job. Why should he have been surprised by 

another lie? 

The bus slowed down and stopped. They had reached the gate, which slid open 

slowly to allow them into a holding area. Someone rapped on the door and the driver 

opened it to allow a thin, unsmiling woman to step inside. Mr. Gilbert stood up and 

held out a hand, but she ignored him. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Good afternoon,” she said. Her voice was clipped and somehow artificial. She 

sounded like a speak-your-weight machine. “May I welcome you to Greenfields Bio 

Center. I am the supervisor here at Greenfields.” She paused, running her eyes 

over the passengers as if committing the faces to memory. “My name is Dr. Myra 

Beckett, and I will be looking after you during your visit.” 

It was hard to say how old Beckett might be. She was a severe, very masculine 

woman in a white coat that hung loose from her shoulders and somehow defined 

her. There was so little emotion in her face that it was hard to imagine her doing 

anything that didn‟t involve books, Bunsen burners, and bottles of chemicals. Her 

dark hair was cut short, with bangs that cut diagonally across her forehead, the 

last strands touching her left eye. She wore circular, gold-framed spectacles that 

looked cheap and didn‟t flatter her. It was obvious that she didn‟t care about her 

appearance. She had no makeup and no jewelry. She made no effort to be polite. 

“We have not had a visit from a school before,” she continued. “We will be showing 

you our laboratories, some of our cultivation centers, and finally, there will be a 

lecture on GM technology by one of our experts. Any photography or recording is 

forbidden. When you leave this bus, every one of you will be searched. This was 

agreed with your school when you were invited. All mobile telephones are to be left 

behind. You will follow me now, please.” 

“What a charming woman,” Tom muttered. 

“Yeah. I‟m really glad we came,” James agreed. 

The supervisor had climbed off. The two teachers and the rest of the Brookland 

crowd followed her into the square building that had been designed exactly like a 

security area in an airport. There were uniformed men standing behind silver 

tables, X-rays for hand luggage, and metal detectors that everyone would have to 

pass through. Alex was one of the first to be searched. He watched as his 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

backpack, with the pencil case inside, disappeared into one of the machines. At the 

same time, he was briskly patted down by a tight-lipped guard. The postcard that 

Smithers had sent him was in his inside pocket, and the guard pulled it out, glanced 

at the picture of the Eiffel Tower, then handed it back to him. His backpack 

appeared on the other side of the machine, but before he could reach it, another 

security man picked it up. 

“Is this yours?” 

“Yes.” Alex nodded. All around him, his friends were being processed. 

It was as if the guard sensed that something was wrong. He examined Alex, then 

opened the backpack and looked inside. 

“It‟s just my schoolwork,” Alex said. 

The guard ignored him. He rifled through the books, then took out the pencil case 

and opened that too. For a moment Alex was certain that every alarm in the place 

was about to go off. The guard took out the rubber eraser and turned it over 

between his fingers. But then, as if he had suddenly lost interest, he shoved 

everything back into the bag and handed it over. 

“Next!” 

Alex joined the others at the far end of the security hall. He noticed that Mr. 

Gilbert was looking fairly disgruntled, and he understood why. They were only on a 

school outing. They were being treated as though they might all be terrorists. 

Beckett didn‟t seem to care. “We will now proceed into the complex,” she 

announced. “Please stay together. Before we log in, does anyone need to use the 

toilet?” There was silence. “Good. Then come this way. . . .” She led them to a final 

barrier, and Alex noticed they were counted electronically as they passed through. 

But at last they were inside Greenfields. Beckett gathered them in a group, 

standing in the open air with the great dome behind them. Now that he was closer 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

to the glass, Alex could see that there was an entire ecosystem contained on the 

other side. Exotic-looking trees sprouted in all directions like green fireworks 

photographed just as they went off. There were strange plants and bushes fighting 

for space, some of them carrying ugly, brilliant-colored berries or fruit. It had to 

be hot inside. A thick layer of steam hung in the air and Alex noticed beads of 

moisture trickling down the panes. To his surprise, there was a movement and a 

man appeared briefly, covered from head to toe in a white protective suit. He was 

inside the dome, carrying a piece of measuring equipment. He stood briefly by the 

window. Then he was gone. 

“You are going to be with us for two hours,” Beckett began. She didn‟t sound 

pleased. Indeed, she was making it clear that this entire visit was an irritation. 

“We will start by looking at some of the laboratories where you will see some of 

our techniques, including genetic transformation, cloning, and the particle delivery 

system—we call it the gene gun—that fires new DNA into plants. The gene gun was 

developed by our director, Leonard Straik. You will visit some of the greenhouses 

and storage facilities where we cultivate and store fruits and vegetables, some of 

which have never before existed on this planet. After that, you will be taken to our 

lecture theater.” She pointed at the white building that Alex had noticed from the 

brow of the hill. “There will be a discussion about the need for GM technology and 

the ways that it can help the future of the planet. And finally”—she smiled so 

briefly that it seemed to be no more than a nervous twitch—“you are invited to our 

canteen for a cup of our own Greenfields Bio Center Blend coffee, which has been 

genetically modified to deliver a more satisfying flavor. 

“Please do not at any time separate from the group. This is the very first occasion 

that we have opened our doors for a school visit, and some of the guards are a 

little nervous. I would be very sorry if any of you delightful young people were 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

asked to leave. Also, do not touch anything. You will be standing close to many 

chemicals and plant specimens. Any of them could be dangerous. Are there any 

questions?” 

“What‟s in there?” someone asked. 

Beckett turned around and looked at the central greenhouse. For a moment her 

eyes seemed to flash behind the circular lenses. “We call that the Poison Dome,” 

she explained. “For many years, Greenfields has been researching natural poisons . . 

. which is to say toxins such as ricin and botulin, which occur in nature and have the 

ability to kill human beings. Inside the Poison Dome, we grow some of the deadliest 

plants on the planet, including water hemlock, deadly nightshade, elephant‟s ear, 

death cap mushrooms, and castor beans. The manzanilla tree has attractive fruit 

that you may choose to swallow. If you do so, it will kill you instantly. There is also 

a white resin dripping out of it that will blister your skin or blind you. The leaves of 

the ongaonga from New Zealand only need to touch you to produce hideous burns. 

It might interest you to know that a common nettle that you may find growing in 

your garden—Urtica dioica—injects you with five neurotransmitters when it stings 

you. The nettles inside the Poison Dome have been genetically modified so that 

they will sting you with five hundred neurotransmitters. I would like to imagine the 

pain of such a death, but in truth, I do not have enough imagination.” 

She took out a tissue and touched it briefly against her lips. 

“We are particularly interested in the way poisons interact,” she continued. “So you 

will also find animal life in there, including specimens of the blue dart frog, which 

releases lethal toxins from its skin, the banana spider, the taipan snake, and the 

marbled cone snail. A single drop of its slime can kill an elephant.” She paused and 

looked around the group. “If any of you would like to visit the Poison Dome, please 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

let me know. Your visit will probably last about fifteen seconds before you die 

horribly.” 

Nobody spoke. Miss Barry, the music teacher, had gone very pale. 

“Very well. Let us head over to the first laboratory. I will ask your teacher to take 

a roll call when we enter and again when we leave.” 

Tom Harris glanced at Alex, looking more doubtful by the minute. Alex shrugged. 

He was remembering what Blunt had told him about Philip Masters, how the 

whistle-blower had died. His body had been unrecognizable when it was found, and 

now Alex had a good idea what might have happened to him. Well, here was 

certainly one area of the Bio Center he‟d be careful to avoid. 

They went into one of the taller buildings with a steel chimney rising above them 

and smoke trickling into the sky. Beckett let them in using an electronic swipe card 

that she carried around her neck, and they passed into a clean, uncluttered 

passageway, where Mr. Gilbert took their names. As they set off once again, Alex 

made sure he was lingering near the back. They passed a restroom. Quickly he 

nudged Tom, who nodded back, and without hesitating Alex suddenly ducked 

sideways, throwing his weight against the door and plunging inside. 

Suddenly he was alone, standing in a white-tiled room with two sinks and two 

mirrors in front of him. He waited until he could no longer hear the voices or the 

footsteps of his friends. Nobody had seen him leave. It was time to get started. 

He took out the postcard with the view of Paris and went over to the sink. He ran a 

paper towel under the tap, then wiped it over the picture. The Eiffel Tower and its 

surroundings dissolved and disappeared. Underneath, there was an intricately 

drawn map of the Greenfields Bio Center, showing all the buildings and 

passageways, with two tiny lights already blinking. One was red. One was green. 

They told him where he was and where he had to get to. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He listened for a moment, and when he was sure that there was no one nearby, he 

slipped out into the corridor again, holding the postcard in front of him. According 

to the flashing display, the chief science officer—Leonard Straik—could be found 

in the building next door to this one, but the two of them were connected by a 

walkway, so Alex wouldn‟t have to go back outside. All in all, he didn‟t think he was 

in too much danger . . . at least not yet. He was wearing a school uniform, part of an 

invited group. If anyone did run into him, it would be easy enough to claim that he 

had simply lagged behind and become lost. And anyway, what was there to worry 

about? The research center might look sinister and it might have poison at its 

heart, but nobody had suggested it was breaking any laws. He was here simply 

because one man, Straik, might be a security risk. His job was an easy one. And half 

an hour from now, it would all be over. 

Even so, his nerves were jangling as he made his way forward, the flashing light in 

the display signaling his progress. He had been heading in the same direction as the 

school party until he came to an open area where three corridors met with a 

concrete staircase heading up to the next floor. That was where the light seemed 

to be directing him. He went up the first few steps, then flattened himself against 

a wall as he heard footsteps approaching. A man and a woman appeared, both of 

them wearing white coats, walking down one of the passageways below him. They 

were deep in conversation and didn‟t notice him. Alex waited until they were gone, 

then continued up. 

The inside of the building was like a school or university. The walls were mainly 

whitewashed and bare, with signs pointing toward different blocks. There were no 

decorations, just fire extinguishers and display boards full of safety notices. The 

second floor was identical to the ground one, with doorways and interlinking 

corridors. Without Smithers‟s postcard, Alex wouldn‟t have had any idea where to 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

go, but now he allowed it to lead him until he arrived at the glass bridge that led to 

the next building. It was more dangerous here. The bridge was about thirty feet 

long, exposed on both sides. From where he was standing, Alex could see electric 

vehicles passing each other on the road underneath. A couple of guards walked 

slowly past, and Alex saw that these two were armed. He recognized the familiar 

shape of 19mm Micro Uzi sub-machine guns, hanging lazily against their chests, and 

wondered if the weapons had been kept hidden deliberately when the school party 

arrived. 

To make matters worse, there were also several cameras pointing his way. Alex 

could wait until there was no one around, but he would still be spotted if he tried 

to cross the bridge. He opened his bag, took out the pencil case, and found the 

pocket calculator. Jamming the cameras might well advertise that something was 

wrong, but he had no choice. He pressed the plus button three times, checked that 

the road was clear, then crossed the bridge. 

He knew he was operating against the clock now. With the cameras down, security 

inside the complex would be heightened and it would be less easy to explain what 

he was doing if he was caught. He ran to the next corner, then jerked back as a 

door opened and a guard appeared, running down a corridor in front of him. It was 

obvious that Alex had passed from an academic or administrative block into an area 

reserved for senior management and executives. The floor was suddenly carpeted. 

There were paintings—highly detailed watercolors of different plants—on the 

walls. The lighting was softer and the doors were made of expensive wood. 

According to the navigation system concealed inside the postcard, Straik‟s office 

was nearby, and Alex also knew its number: 225. That was the date that Smithers 

had written above the message. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He found it at the end of the corridor around the next corner. As he approached, 

he heard a door open somewhere downstairs and someone calling out. There were 

more footsteps . . . someone hurrying. A telephone was ringing insistently. Nobody 

was answering it. They were only tiny details, yet Alex had the sense that 

something had changed inside Greenfields. The cameras were out of action, and 

that had made them nervous. 

Was there anyone in Straik‟s office? There was only one way to find out. Alex took 

a deep breath and knocked. This was the moment of truth. If someone called out 

for him to come in, the whole thing would have been a waste of time. 

There was silence. 

Alex sighed. So far, so good. He took out the pencil case and removed the library 

card. He had noticed a card reader built into the wall beside every door that he 

had passed, and Straik‟s was no different. Alex swiped his card through the 

reader, then fed it into the slot at the bottom of his pencil case. He felt the whole 

thing vibrate in his hand as the machinery that Smithers had built into the secret 

compartment did its work. A few seconds later, the library card slid out again. Alex 

swiped it a second time. The card had been reprogrammed. There was a click and 

Straik‟s door swung open. 

Alex hurried in, closing the door behind him. He found himself in a large, 

comfortable office with views over the perfect lawn outside the security block. 

That was where they had gathered when they had first arrived, and for a fleeting 

moment Alex wondered if he had been missed yet. Had Tom been able to cover for 

him during the second roll call? He began to realize just how risky his plan had 

been—but it was too late now. He looked around him. Straik had four or five potted 

plants, which seemed to have been genetically modified to look artificial. There 

were half a dozen bookshelves, an antique mirror, and a glass-fronted cabinet with 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

a scattering of scientific awards. A framed picture had recently been delivered 

but not yet hung. It was still in Bubble Wrap, leaning against the wall. Two designer 

armchairs sat side by side, opposite an antique desk. Straik‟s computer was on the 

desk. 

Alex made straight for it. He just wanted to get this over with and then join his 

friends. Once he was back with the school group, he would be safe. Even if the 

security people realized there was an intruder at large, they would never suspect 

him. He had to admit that Alan Blunt was right. Sometimes it did help to be 

fourteen. 

Straik had a leather chair, a massive, swiveling thing that reminded Alex of the 

dentist. He sat down and took out the eraser that had come with the pencil case. 

Some of the gadgets that Smithers had supplied him with over the past year had 

been ingenious, but this one was very simple. He simply ripped the eraser in half, 

then pulled it apart to reveal the memory stick inside. 

Straik‟s computer was already turned on, but Alex had no doubt that any important 

files would be encrypted and protected by a whole series of passwords. 

Fortunately, that wasn‟t his problem. Alex found the USB port. There was already 

a memory stick there and he took it out, laying it on the desk. Then he plugged in 

his own. 

Immediately, the screen blazed into life with four columns of figures flickering 

and spinning crazily as the worm—or whatever was built into the memory stick—

burrowed into the heart of the computer, sucking out its information. How long had 

Smithers said this would take? Alex thought he heard voices outside in the 

corridor, and he felt the cold touch of the air-conditioning against the sweat on his 

neck and brow. Half a minute. That was all. But the seconds seemed to stretch 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

themselves in front of him as more and more files—thousands of them—appeared 

and disappeared, each one duplicated and stolen away. 

57.2 GB downloaded of 85.3. 

Alex forced his eyes away from the screen and looked at the desk, wondering what 

other secrets the director of Greenfields might have left scattered around. But 

there was nothing out of the ordinary: a diary with a few scribbled entries, some 

letters waiting to be signed. He glanced at them, but they were brief and 

uninteresting. 

66.5 GB downloaded of 85.3. 

He slid open one of the drawers. It held stationery—envelopes and headed 

notepaper, business cards, and a telephone directory. Two notebooks, both of them 

empty. He turned back to the screen. Only twenty gigabytes to go, but 

infuriatingly, the compuer seemed to have slowed down as whatever worms were 

hidden on the memory stick burrowed their way through the various firewalls. Even 

so, he wouldn‟t have time to go through the files. Most of them would make no 

sense to him anyway, and it would be impossible to tell which were important and 

which were simply routine. 

71.1 GB downloaded of 85.3. 

Alex knew that he was running out of time, that someone could arrive at any 

moment. Part of him was listening for footsteps in the corridor. 

79.5 GB downloaded of 85.3. 

The memory stick had almost done its work. But now someone really was 

approaching! Alex could hear two men talking, getting closer all the time. 

On the screen, the horizontal bar came to the end of its journey. 

Download complete. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The memory stick had finished its work. The computer screen went blank. There 

was a faint bleep as the lock was activated. Alex snatched the memory stick and 

dived forward, making for the one hiding place he had seen inside the office. 

Already he was wondering what he would do if Straik decided to spend the whole 

day in his office. How would he get back to the school group? He would be trapped. 

Alex had just managed to conceal himself when the door opened. 

Two men came in. 

From where Alex was crouching, he could see Leonard Straik as he approached the 

desk. The Greenfields director was reflected in the mirror, and with a sense of 

total shock, Alex realized that he recognized him. Silver hair rising up as if it had 

just been blown dry. Heavy lips and jowels. Small, watery eyes. The two of them 

had met recently. But where . . . ? 

Then he remembered. Scotland. New Year‟s Eve. The man he had thought of as an 

accountant, playing cards with Desmond McCain. What had McCain called him? Leo. 

Of course! That was it. Leo was Leonard . . . Leonard Straik. 

“Do you want something to drink? Tea? Coffee? We actually develop it ourselves, 

you know. But it still tastes disgusting.” 

“No. Not for me, thank you.” 

The other man came in, closing the door behind him. And that was an even bigger 

shock for Alex. 

The second man was Desmond McCain. 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

11 

 

CONDITION RED 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“ S O, IS IT READY FOR SHIPMENT?” 

Alex remembered McCain‟s voice so well: not loud but deep and powerful, brimming 

with self-confidence. And yet he had difficulty pronouncing his words. His smashed 

jaw wasn‟t quite able to form them perfectly. He had taken one of the designer 

chairs and was sitting with his back to Alex, the silver crucifix in his ear just 

visible above his right shoulder. Meanwhile, Straik had taken his place on the other 

side of the desk. The two men had no idea that anyone else was in the room. 

It was fortunate that Straik liked big paintings. Whatever it was that he had 

bought for his office had provided Alex with his hiding place. He was squashed up 

behind it, in the awkward, triangular space between the picture and the wall. There 

certainly wouldn‟t have been room for a full-grown adult here, and even he was 

cramped, the muscles in his thighs and shoulders already urging him to straighten 

up. He could make out a little of Straik and McCain reflected in the antique mirror, 

but he didn‟t dare lean too far forward. If he could see them, they would be able 

to see him. 

“Of course it‟s ready,” Straik replied. He sounded irritated. “I gave you my word, 

didn‟t I?” 

“So where is it now?” 

“The bulk of it is at Gatwick Airport. It‟s being carried out in a commercial Boeing 

757. Completely routine. But I thought it might amuse you to have a look at it, so 

I‟ve kept a sample for you here.” Straik slid open one of the drawers of his desk 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

and took something out. Alex craned forward, but he couldn‟t see what it was. “It 

took a little while longer than expected. We had problems with mass production.” 

“How much were you able to produce?” McCain asked. 

“A thousand gallons. It should be more than enough. The main thing is to make sure 

that the temperature is kept constant when it‟s in the air. You have to remember, 

this stuff is alive. But that said, it‟s also fairly durable.” 

“How quickly will it work?” 

“Almost immediately. You need to apply it in the morning. The process will begin at 

once, and within thirty-six hours it‟ll be unstoppable. There won‟t be anything to 

see, of course—not to begin with—but in about three weeks you‟ll have the 

attention of the entire world.” Straik paused. “What about the shooting? All 

done?” 

“I‟m sending Myra to Elm‟s Cross tomorrow. We‟re closing it down.” 

“Getting rid of the evidence.” 

“Exactly.” 

“Well, in that case . . .” 

Straik stopped. And in the silence, somehow Alex knew that something had gone 

wrong. Crouching behind the picture, he froze, afraid that the sound of his 

breathing or his heart beating would give him away. 

“Someone has been in my office,” Straik said. 

“What?” The word came out like a whiplash. 

“My desk . . .” Straik picked something up, and even without seeing it, Alex knew 

what it was. The memory stick that had been in the computer when he arrived. He 

had taken it out to insert his own—but he hadn‟t had time to replace it. “This was in 

my USB port when I came down to meet you,” Straik said. “I loaded it myself. 

Someone‟s taken it out.” 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

“Are you sure?” 

“Of course I‟m sure.” 

“Your secretary could have been in.” 

“She‟s not here.” 

Alex realized he couldn‟t hold his position much longer. He was desperate to 

straighten up, to allow his muscles to stretch. At least there was one good thing. 

The hiding place was so small that neither of the two men would suspect for a 

minute that anyone else was still in the room. But he had to know what was going 

on, even at the risk of giving himself away. Very slowly, he leaned forward a few 

inches to have a glimpse in the mirror. McCain was holding the memory stick. Straik 

was hunched over his computer, tapping furiously at the keyboard, his little eyes 

focused on the screen. Two pin-pricks of red had appeared in his cheeks. 

“This computer has been compromised,” he announced. 

“Compromised?” 

“Someone has attempted to download documents and files from the main drive. For 

all I know, they may have succeeded.” Straik snatched up a telephone and dialed a 

number. There was a brief pause. Then he was answered. “This is Leonard Straik,” 

he said. “I want an immediate status report.” Another pause. Alex wondered what 

was being said at the other end of the line. It wasn‟t hard to guess. Then Straik 

spoke again. “I want you to put out a condition double red alert,” he snapped. “All 

personnel to assemble immediately. This is not an exercise. We have a major 

security breach.” 

He hung up. “We have an intruder,” he said to McCain. “Ten minutes ago, our entire 

surveillance system went down. Someone must be jamming the signal. This is what 

they were after.” He nodded at the computer. “They must have left seconds 

before we arrived.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

“What‟s a double red alert?” 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Any unauthorized person found wandering inside the Bio Center will be killed . . . 

no questions asked.” 

“Don‟t you have a bunch of schoolchildren here?” 

“I haven‟t forgotten that, Desmond. I‟m not an idiot—whatever you may think. My 

staff have special instructions.” He turned off the computer. “I‟m going to the 

control center. Are you coming?” 

“Absolutely.” It struck Alex that McCain sounded more amused than alarmed. But 

that seemed to be his character. Whatever he might be up to, he didn‟t believe 

that anyone could get in his way. 

The two of them stood up. Alex heard the swish of cloth as Straik came out from 

behind his desk. They went over to the door. It opened, then closed. Alex was on 

his own. 

Gratefully, he uncurled himself from behind the picture. For a moment he stood 

where he was, trying to collect his thoughts. He was probably safe while he was in 

Straik‟s office, at least for the time being. Security would be searching for him—

but this was the one place they wouldn‟t look. Even so, he couldn‟t stay here 

forever. With an intruder on the loose, the school visit might be cut short and the 

bus sent back to London. Alex had to be on it. He couldn‟t be left behind. 

It was worse than that. Alex realized that his only chance of survival was to get 

back to Mr. Gilbert and the others. There had been nothing accidental about the 

death of the whistle-blower, and no matter what Blunt might have said, there 

really was something seriously unpleasant going on at Greenfields. Why else would 

the director be so keen to see that any intruder was killed? Alex had to get back 

to his class. No guard was going to fire at him when there were witnesses. Once he 

was back with the others, he would be safe . . . just one bored student among many. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He headed for the door, about to leave, when he noticed a glass vial resting on 

Straik‟s desk. It was a test tube, sealed at the top, with a muddy gray liquid inside. 

This must be the “sample” that he had heard the two men talking about. Alex had 

no idea what it contained, but another thousand gallons of it were on their way 

somewhere abroad. He still had the memory stick in his pocket, but on an impulse 

he went over and took the test tube too. Smithers would analyze it. And that would 

be the end of it. The liquid would surely reveal whatever was being planned. 

He opened the door carefully, checked there was no one in sight, then stepped 

outside. He had decided to head back the way he had come. He had no idea where 

his friends were and he was furious that he had no way of communicating with 

them. Normally, he would have called Tom or James . . . but all their mobile phones 

had been left on the bus. What had the woman, Dr. Beckett, told them? The 

laboratories first. Then the greenhouses and storage centers. Finally, the lecture 

theater. Surely they couldn‟t be too hard to find. 

Alex closed the door behind him and sprinted back around the corner, his feet 

making no sound on the carpet. The glass bridge was ahead of him, but even as he 

approached it, he heard men running toward him and spun back, ducking into a 

storage cupboard a second before they appeared. There were three guards and 

they were all armed. Alex watched them run across the bridge and disappear down 

another passage. Above his head, he noticed a light flashing red. He gritted his 

teeth. This had turned into a cat-and-mouse game with only one mouse and an awful 

lot of cats. 

The bridge was clear and he crossed it into what he had thought of as the 

administrative block. He went back down the stairs but immediately realized that 

he had forgotten which way he had originally come from—left or right. The trouble 

was that every direction looked the same. He tossed a mental coin and set off, 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

knowing almost at once that he was lost. He still had the postcard with its guidance 

system in his back pocket but it couldn‟t really help him now. All that mattered was 

to keep moving and not to be seen. 

“Stop!” 

The guard had stepped out of nowhere, blocking his way. He had a machine gun 

dangling around his neck and he was already fumbling with it, bringing it up and 

around. Alex turned and ran. He had taken no more than ten steps when a neon 

light fitting exploded with a shower of sparks and broken glass. At the same time, 

the walls and ceiling showered plaster on him. Alex hadn‟t heard much more than a 

whisper, but the guard was clearly firing in his direction, the bullets streaming 

over his head. The gun must have some sort of silencer attached to it . . . and of 

course, that made sense. These were the “special instructions” that Straik had 

issued. They couldn‟t risk the sound of gunfire, not when they had forty schoolkids 

on the site. 

Alex hurtled down another corridor, past a series of open doors. He passed a 

laboratory, surprisingly cluttered and old-fashioned, with plant specimens on the 

work desks and bottles of different chemicals on the shelves. A woman in a white 

coat, holding a petri dish in the palm of her hand, looked up and momentarily caught 

his eye. Behind her, a man was taking a tray of flowers out of what looked like an 

industrial fridge. Alex wondered if his class had been here, perhaps a few minutes 

before. He was tempted to stop and ask. He could still pretend to be lost. He 

decided against it. 

Double red alert. He had so far been spotted by one guard, and the fact that he 

was a boy in a school uniform hadn‟t made any difference at all. These people 

wanted him dead. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He heard shouting behind him. There was another light flashing in the corner of his 

eye. Alex hadn‟t even slowed down. He saw a glass door ahead of him and sprinted 

toward it, palms outstretched, praying that it wasn‟t locked. He pushed. It opened. 

He almost fell through as another blast of bullets fanned silently through the air, 

punching dotted lines across the wall beside him. But now he was outside and 

running. He saw the sleek white exterior of the lecture theater on the other side 

of the lawn, but he couldn‟t reach it. More guards in electric vehicles were racing 

toward him, moving fast. Alex felt a surge of despair. How could he have allowed 

Alan Blunt and MI6 to talk him into this? He‟d promised Jack he wouldn‟t get into 

trouble again. He‟d promised Sabina. More than that, he‟d promised himself. 

Anger spurred him on. He reached one of the greenhouses and plunged in through 

two sets of doors. It had been cold outside, but here the climate was subtropical. 

Hundreds of plants were arranged on shelves, some just a few inches tall, some 

bending against the roof high above. The greenhouses were actually more like glass 

factories, divided into dozens of different rooms, each one joined to the other by 

a maze of interlinking corridors. Huge silver pipes and watering systems snaked 

across the ceiling. There were banks of machinery controlling the lights, the 

temperature, and the humidity in all the different areas, ensuring perfect 

conditions for all this artificial life. Alex had to be safe here. The guards might 

have followed him in, but there were plenty of hiding places. Provided he kept 

moving, there was no way they would be able to find him. 

The next attack took him completely by surprise. A cascade of bullets that seemed 

never-ending. They came from all sides, determined to kill the intruder even if it 

meant destroying the entire complex. Alex didn‟t hear a single shot, but inside the 

greenhouse the noise of bullets smashing glass was deafening. Windows shattered 

all around him. Alex threw himself to the ground as shards of glass, thousands and 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

thousands of them, showered in all directions. Inches above his head, the plants 

were shredded, the very air turning green as it was filled with tiny cuttings of 

stalk and leaf. Terracotta pots exploded, earth showering out. Brightly colored 

flowers tore themselves apart. And still the bullets kept coming, hammering into 

the machinery, ricocheting off the metal pipes. Alex could just make out the dark 

shapes of the guards surrounding the building, destroying it. He wondered if they 

had all gone mad. Or was it that the work at Greenfields was finished and nothing 

mattered anymore, so long as nobody was able to escape with its secrets? 

He scurried forward on his hands and knees, trying to lose himself farther inside 

the complex. He came to a brick wall with another bank of machinery and crawled 

behind it, putting a solid barrier between himself and the gunfire. Nobody could 

see him here. He patted his fingers against his forehead. When he examined them, 

they were stained with blood. None of the bullets had hit him. It must have been 

the falling glass. He brushed it out of his hair and off his shoulders. What must he 

look like? What would Mr. Gilbert say if he ever turned up? 

He had to find the school tour! Surely they must have heard all the racket, even if 

the guards were using silencers. Another corridor led into the distance, this one 

with mirrored tiles instead of glass. He set off, still keeping low. Suddenly he was 

surrounded by brickwork. He had entered some sort of equipment room with 

spades and wheelbarrows. He could have been in an ordinary garden center rather 

than a top-secret research institute. There were even bags of fertilizer . . . as if 

he needed reminding of the sort of trouble he was in. 

Somehow he had to find a way back outside. Then he would cut back to the lecture 

theater and hope to join the rest of Brookland there. At least he seemed to have 

lost the guards with their machine guns. Perhaps they were scouring through the 

wreckage, looking for a body. Alex checked the test tube that he had stolen from 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Straik‟s office. He had been carrying it in his top jacket pocket, and fortunately it 

was still in one piece. He slipped it back in and set off again, heading for a set of 

solid-looking doors and a sign: STRICTLY NO ADMITTANCE. AUTHORIZED 

PERSONNEL ONLY. The doors were locked and hermetically sealed, but there was 

another reader set in the frame. Alex still had the library card. He had 

reprogrammed it to open Straik‟s door, and presumably Straik had access to every 

zone in the Bio Center. So . . . 

He tried it. It worked. The doors opened. Alex went in, smiling as they clicked shut 

behind him. It might well be that the guards were unable to follow him in here. How 

many of them, after all, would have been authorized? 

He only realized where he was when it was too late. The shape of the building, the 

intense heat, the moisture running down the glass panes . . . all these should have 

warned him. But the door had already locked itself, and looking back, he saw that 

there was no reader on this side, no way back out. He stood where he was, feeling 

the heavy air on his cheeks and forehead. His clothes were already sticking to him. 

Something was buzzing loudly over his head. Alex closed his eyes and swore. 

He had walked into the Poison Dome. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

12 

 

HELL ON EARTH 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

ALEX LOOKED AROUND HIM. He had once visited the greenhouses at Kew 

Gardens in London—and in some ways this was similar. The building itself was very 

elegant, the great dome supported by a delicate framework of metal supports. The 

whole area was about the size of a circular soccer field, if such a thing could exist. 

But unlike Kew Gardens, there was nothing beautiful or inviting about the plants 

that grew here. Alex examined the tangle of green in front of him, the trunks and 

branches crisscrossing each other, struggling for space. They all looked evil, the 

leaves either razor sharp or covered in millions of hairs. He remembered what 

Beckett had said. These were mutant organisms. Touching just one of them would 

bring pain and death. Fruits in the shape of half-sized apples hung over his head, 

and rich, fat berries clung to the bushes. But they were all hideous colors, 

somehow unnatural, warning him to stay away. He could hear droning. There were 

insects in here and they were big ones, from the sound of them. Bees, perhaps 

something worse. 

Alex‟s skin was already crawling, but he forced himself not to move. The 

information that the Beckett woman had given him when he arrived might even now 

save his life. He mustn‟t brush against any of the plants here. They had been 

altered so that they were a hundred times more deadly than nature intended. And 

there weren‟t just plants. She had talked about the interaction of poisons. And so 

there were spiders and snails and . . . of course, the bees. Why had Straik created 

this place? Hell on earth. What was he trying to prove? 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Alex couldn‟t go back. He remembered the shape of the dome, with the corridors 

branching out like points of the compass. He had come in as if from the south. Now 

he had to reach the other side and one of the other three exits. Two in and two 

out . . . that must be how it worked. From what he could remember, the lecture 

theater must be directly in front of him. So all he had to do was walk straight. And 

at least there was a path, a boardwalk made of wooden planks, stretched out 

ahead. And nobody would be looking for him in here. Nobody would be stupid enough 

to follow him in. He might be stung, bitten, poisoned, or scared to death, but at 

least he wouldn‟t be shot. 

So . . . 

There was no other way. 

Alex moved forward, very slowly. Touching nothing. Not making a sound. If he was 

going to get out of here alive, he would have to take it literally one step at a time. 

Beckett had mentioned snakes . . . the taipan. Alex knew it to be the most 

venomous land snake in the world, fifty times more toxic than the cobra. But it was 

also nervous. Like most animals, it wouldn‟t attack a human unless it was 

threatened. So provided he didn‟t brush against anything, touch anything, step on 

anything, or alarm anything, he might come out of this all right. 

One step at a time. 

He followed the wooden boardwalk. The plants were horribly close to him. The 

nearest of them was an oversized thistle that seemed to be straining to break free 

and attack him, like an angry dog. Then came a squat, ugly tree corkscrewing out of 

the earth with green scalpel blades instead of leaves. The smell of sulfur rose in 

his nostrils. The path was crossing a volcanic pool. A creeper hung in front of him. 

He resisted the urge to brush it aside and bent low, contorting himself to avoid 

coming into contact with it. If he made one miscalculation, even so much as an inch, 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

he might dislodge something, and he knew that a single touch could finish him. 

Everything here was his enemy. Something buzzed close to his head and he jerked 

around, unable to control himself. His sleeve brushed against a jagged-edged 

nettle, but fortunately, the material protected him from the bristling hairs—or 

neurotransmitters, as Beckett had called them. Alex shrunk into his jacket, pulling 

it around him. Every fiber of his being was concentrated on the way ahead. 

Something slithered onto his foot. 

Alex stopped. He even stopped breathing. It was as if someone had drawn a noose 

tight around his throat. Trying not to panic, he looked down. He could already tell 

from the weight that this wasn‟t a snake. It was too small, too light. And it hadn‟t 

slithered, it had crawled. For a moment he couldn‟t see it and thought that 

perhaps, after all, he had imagined it. 

He hadn‟t. It was almost worse than a snake. A glistening centipede, at least eight 

inches long, had settled on the top of his sneaker. The creature could have been 

drawn by a demonic child: red head, black body, bright yellow legs that seemed to 

be writhing with anticipation. Alex knew what it was. He had seen something 

exactly the same once on television. The giant redheaded centipede. Also known as 

the giant desert centipede. How had the narrator described it? Unusually 

aggressive and extremely fast . . . 

And this one had decided to stretch itself out on his foot. What if it decided to 

explore a little farther, over his ankle and up his pant leg, for example? Alex stood 

as still as a statue. Without making any sound, he was screaming at the insect. Go 

away! Go and explore a sulfur pit. Make friends with a marbled cone snail. But leave 

me alone! Alex could see its antennae twitching as it made up its mind. He looked 

fearfully at his bare flesh just inches above his sock. He couldn‟t bear it any more. 

He suddenly lashed out, using every muscle in his leg as he kicked at the air. He 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

thought the centipede would still cling on. It might get tangled in his laces. He was 

certain he was going to feel its bite. But when he looked down again, it was no 

longer there. He had managed to shake it free. 

He needed a weapon . . . anything to protect himself from whatever might come 

next. Why couldn‟t Smithers have built a flamethrower into his Simpsons pencil 

case? Alex reached into his backpack once again. He had the two gel pens, but the 

last thing he wanted to do in here was set off an explosion . . . it would just 

advertise his presence to every living thing. That just left the pencil sharpener 

with the diamond-edged blade. He took it out and unfolded it three times, the 

plastic swiveling on concealed hinges. He was left with something that looked like a 

tiny ax or meat cleaver, barely three centimeters long. It might be useful for 

cutting through wire or even glass, but it wasn‟t much good for anything else. Even 

so, Alex felt a little more confident having it in his hand. 

Where was the other door? The guards must still be looking for him, and he knew 

he had to get a move on, to find his way out of here as quickly as possible. But even 

so, he didn‟t dare hurry. He took another step and his foot came down on a little 

cluster of mushrooms, crushing them. Pale yellow liquid, like pus, oozed out from 

beneath his sole. A moth fluttered briefly in front of him. It was hard to believe 

that he was in an artificially created environment, a greenhouse—and not lost in 

the jungle. The pathway took him past a pool of boiling mud, bubbles rising slowly 

and heavily to the surface. A tall, twisted tree with lianas trailing from its 

branches grew beside it. Alex looked up, then ducked back as a globule of milky 

white syrup splashed down, oozing out of the bark. It missed his face by 

millimeters and he knew that if it had hit his eyes, he might well have been blinded. 

The path curved around and Alex found himself in a slight clearing with a tiny river 

in front of him and a Japanese-style bridge. The pretty humpbacked structure 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

looked ridiculous in this artificial jungle. Who could possibly want to come for a 

walk here among so much death? He could no longer see the glass windows that 

made up the outer walls of the Poison Dome and guessed that he must be at its 

very heart. Well, at least if he was halfway in, that meant he was also halfway out. 

Something buzzed past his head and he just caught sight of a giant wasp, legs 

trailing, barely able to stay in the air as it struggled against its own weight. What 

horrors were going to come next? He had to get out of here. 

He crossed the bridge, still moving slowly. Silvery water flowed beneath, and as 

Alex passed across, it suddenly erupted in a frenzy. Some sort of fish life had 

detected his presence. Piranha . . . or something worse. Alex was beginning to 

wonder if the dome had really been built as a scientific experiment or if it wasn‟t 

just some huge toy, the fantasy of a sick mind. Straik might pretend to be studying 

poisons. In fact, he seemed more interested in sudden death. 

He stepped off the other side of the bridge. That was when the man appeared. 

It was a guard—or a gardener—dressed in a white protective suit that began at his 

ankles and continued all the way to his neck. His feet were weighed down by heavy-

duty boots and he was wearing gloves that doubled the size of his hands. His head 

was completely enclosed in the sort of helmet that a beekeeper might wear, except 

that instead of a net, his face was covered by a plastic sheet. Alex was aware of 

two hostile eyes glaring at him, a small nose, and a mouth curled in a sneering smile. 

The rest of the man‟s features were hidden. He was holding a machete. He was 

pointing it directly at Alex. 

Alex stopped with the bridge behind him. “Hi,” he said. “Are you the park 

attendant? Because if so, maybe you could show me the way out.” 

The man tightened his grip on the weapon. Alex knew what was about to happen and 

he was ready for it. As the machete swung through the air, the blade aiming for his 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

neck, he dropped down, then threw himself forward, ducking underneath the man‟s 

arm. For just a second, Alex was behind him and he slashed upward with his own, 

miniature blade. The man didn‟t even feel it. He spun around and brought both his 

hands plunging down, using the handle of the machete as a club. It smashed into 

Alex‟s shoulder and the pain ricocheted along his bones and muscles, all the way to 

his wrist. His hand fell open and the little knife dropped away. 

The man came at him again, this time swinging the blade to force Alex away from 

him. Alex took one step back, then another. At the last second, he remembered the 

water behind him. The man was about to feed him to the fish. Alex stopped with 

his heels on the very edge of the bank. The machete sliced the air in front of him 

and at once he lashed out, his fist plunging into the man‟s abdomen. The protective 

suit absorbed much of the damage. Alex felt the hardened material take the skin 

off his knuckles. But the man had been winded and fell back. Alex lashed out with 

his foot, catching the man on his arm. The machete spun away and landed, point 

down, in a flower bed. 

The man charged straight at him, almost knocking Alex off his feet. Alex was 

terrified he was going to step on a nettle or fall backward into one of the flower 

beds. The flowers growing near the river were like porcupines, with huge spikes and 

bulging, overripe berries that could have been disease-ridden eyes. For a moment 

Alex lost his balance and he lifted an arm to steady himself. He touched a spider‟s 

web hanging from a branch. He hadn‟t even seen it, but he felt it at once. A single 

strand of the web had wrapped itself across the flesh on the back of his hand. It 

burned into him like acid. Alex cried out. 

The man reached for the machete, took hold of it, and suddenly he was coming 

again at Alex, chopping the air with a series of vicious blows. Alex looked left, 

right, then behind him. He had almost backed into another tree. The bark looked 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

innocent enough, but he didn‟t dare touch it. It might contain ricin or botulin or any 

other toxin that Beckett had forgotten to mention. How far away was it? Alex 

judged the distance carefully, then stood his ground. The man stumbled toward 

him. The heavy protective suit he was wearing was slowing him down. The blade 

slashed toward Alex‟s neck. At the very last second, Alex ducked and, just as he 

had hoped, he heard the clunk as it bit into the tree. The man pulled at it, but it 

was stuck fast. And that was when Alex twisted around and slammed his foot into 

the man‟s chest, putting all his strength behind it. 

The man, thrown backward, slipped and fell on his back, landing in one of the beds 

of porcupine flowers. Even now, his suit should have protected him. But he had no 

way of realizing what Alex had done. Before he had lost it, he had used the little 

pencil-sharpener knife to make a slit that ran all the way from the man‟s waist to 

the back of his neck. There was a gap now that had allowed the spikes to go all the 

way through. The man screamed. Behind the mask, his eyes bulged and his entire 

body began to jerk, his legs kicking helplessly. Alex watched in horror as gray foam 

began to pour out of his mouth. Then suddenly his arms shot out and he lay still. 

Alex didn‟t stay a moment longer than he had to. The noise of the fight would have 

disturbed whatever else was living in this nightmare place. If there were any other 

men working inside the dome, they would be on their way to investigate. He‟d had 

enough. Still forcing himself not to panic, he pressed forward. A few minutes later, 

he was finally rewarded—a door! This one opened from the inside. Alex felt a great 

wave of relief as he swiped the card and passed through. The door swung shut. He 

had left the Poison Dome behind. 

He examined the back of his hand. The web had left a white line running from one 

side to the other and the whole thing was swollen and painful. Well, he just had to 

be grateful that he hadn‟t actually met the spider. He rubbed the wound, but that 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

only made it feel worse. He would just have to ignore it until he could get medical 

help. Where was he? The dome had brought him into another greenhouse, this one 

filled with troughs of what looked like wheat. He wasn‟t safe yet, but at least he 

was away from the shooting. Maybe the guards thought he was already dead. 

He found a door and made his way outside again. In the distance he could hear 

shouting and two electric vehicles shot past, carrying more guards toward the 

noise. The lecture theater—white and modern—was right in front of him. Alex 

didn‟t know if the cameras were still jammed, nor did he care anymore. He was 

tired. His hand was hurting. His shoulder—where he had been hit with the handle 

of the machete—was on fire. There was still broken glass in his hair and he knew 

there must be quite a few cuts on his forehead and face. The next time Mr. Gilbert 

offered him a school trip, he would say he was sick. 

He staggered forward, heading for the lecture theater. Maybe the rest of the 

school would already be there. He would slip in without being noticed and join the 

rest of the group. He could already see himself dozing off during the rest of 

whatever talk was going on. 

Then the doors opened. Two guards stepped out. They saw Alex at the same 

moment that he saw them. 

It wasn‟t over yet. 

Alex turned around and ran. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

13 

 

EXIT STRATEGY 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

TOM HARRIS WAS GETTING WORRIED. 

Almost an hour had passed since Alex had slipped away, disappearing into a 

restroom like some superhero about to change into costume and save the world. 

Only it wasn‟t like that. Tom knew that Alex didn‟t really want to work for MI6. He 

had said as much when the two of them were out together in Italy. So why had 

Alex chosen to go back to it all—and what could be such a big deal about a research 

center that seemed to be spending most of its time designing the perfect tomato? 

After Alex had gone, the rest of the school party had been taken to one of the 

laboratories, where an earnest young scientist with a neatly trimmed beard had 

shown them the chemical process that put new DNA into a single plant cell. Tom 

had barely listened. He didn‟t find it easy to concentrate at the best of times. 

Now, his parents had recently separated. His father was living on his own in a motel 

in south London. His mother had taken up smoking again. They were both 

overachievers with a pile of diplomas between them, but what good had it done 

them? If Tom had his way, he would drop school entirely. 

As they had moved from one laboratory to the next, Tom had passed a window and 

had found himself looking for Alex. There was nobody in sight. But during the next 

demonstration—something to do with plants freeze-dried in liquid nitrogen—he had 

noticed a red light begin to blink discreetly in the corner of the room. Beckett had 

clearly seen it too. Tom saw her face change, a look of concern creeping into her 

eyes. It was an alarm. He was sure of it. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

And then, in the distance, he heard something. The sound of breaking glass—a lot 

of it. Everyone else was too busy listening, taking notes. But Tom knew what it 

meant. Alex was on the run. Part of him was tempted to sneak out and join him. 

It was lucky he didn‟t. As soon as the demonstration ended, Beckett insisted on a 

roll call to check that everyone was there, and—as promised—Tom stood in for 

Alex, doing a reasonable imitation of his voice. 

“Rider?” 

“Here, sir.” 

Only James Hale, standing next to him, saw what was happening and glanced at him 

quizzically. Tom shrugged but gave nothing away. 

And now they were in some workshop, two floors down, underground. Tom wondered 

if they had been brought here on purpose, to stop them from hearing or seeing 

anything that might be going on outside. Another scientist—this one young, female, 

and Chinese—had arrived to show them the famous gene gun, developed, they were 

told, by the director of Greenfields. It was a rather ordinary-looking piece of 

equipment that resembled a small metal safe with a glass door. Nonetheless, this 

was at the heart of GM technology, the woman said. She opened the door and 

placed a round petri dish inside. 

“The gene gun is a very effective way to deliver new DNA into a plant,” she 

explained. “This is done by a system known as Biolistic Particle Delivery . . .” 

As she continued, Tom noticed a guard, dressed in khaki, steal into the room. He 

approached Beckett and whispered urgently into her ear. Tom wasn‟t surprised 

when, a moment later, she stepped forward, interrupting the talk. 

“I am very sorry, boys and girls,” she exclaimed. “I am afraid we are going to have 

to end your visit to Greenfields. An emergency situation has arisen and you must 

return to your school bus at once.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Wait a minute . . . ,” Mr. Gilbert began. His face was indignant. They had driven a 

long way to visit the center and they had only been here for an hour. 

“There will be no argument,” Beckett snapped. “We will take the back staircase. 

Your driver has been instructed to meet you around the side of the building.” 

James moved closer to Tom. “This is about Alex, isn‟t it,” he muttered. 

“Alex is standing right next to me,” Tom replied. 

“Yeah. Sure.” James nodded slowly. 

The class was already filing out and the two of them followed behind. 

  

The guards had seen him. If they had been carrying Uzis, he would have been dead 

already. One of them was coming after him, catching up fast. The other had 

stopped to talk into his radio, alerting the others. 

Alex was getting tired. He was in pain. As he ran back toward the center of the 

complex, he was aware of just two things. He had to drop out of sight. And—if it 

wasn‟t too late already—he had to find his way back to his friends. There was 

safety in numbers. So long as he was part of Brookland School, inside the group, 

there was nothing that Straik or anybody else could do. 

But where were they? There was no bus, no sign of anyone, and definitely no way 

out of the Greenfields Bio Center. The fence was too high and he could see the 

gate, over on his right, firmly closed. The Poison Dome, which he‟d managed to 

break out of just a few moments before, was now on his left. Well, one thing was 

certain. He wasn‟t going back in there. 

Alex heard a whine and saw an electric car with three more guards speeding across 

the lawn toward him. The door of one of the brick buildings opened and more 

guards poured out. These ones were armed. For just a second, Alex was tempted to 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

hand himself over. He could still pretend he had lagged behind his class and gotten 

lost. Would they really be so quick to kill him? 

Then he remembered the test tube in his top pocket. Straik knew someone had 

hacked into his computer. And there was a dead man in the Poison Dome. Alex put 

the thought out of his mind. It was obvious what they could—and would—do if they 

got hold of him, and right now they were just seconds away. He had to move . . . 

fast. 

Ahead of him, a wide tarmac driveway ran straight between what looked like two 

rows of factories. This was the only way with no guards . . . and it might lead him 

back to the block where the school visit had begun. A single white-coated 

technician stood in his way, but he was busy with other things, funneling a steaming 

liquid from a steel cylinder into a heavily insulated container. Liquid nitrogen. It 

had to be. Alex had seen the same stuff—though in smaller quantities—at 

Brookland. And what were its properties? In physics class . . . yes . . . there was 

something he had been told. 

The electric car was getting nearer. The guards who were on foot had brought up 

their machine guns, preparing to fire. A single cascade of silent bullets and he 

would be torn to shreds. Alex was already sprinting down the driveway. As the 

stunned technician stood frozen in surprise, Alex leapt forward and seized the 

steel cylinder. Then, in a single movement—he spun around and hurled it behind him. 

The container hit the tarmac and the liquid nitrogen splashed out, immediately 

forming itself into marbles that bounced along the hard surface. At the same time, 

it began to evaporate, and suddenly there was a wall of white mist between Alex 

and his pursuers as the liquid reacted to the higher temperature and turned back 

into gas. The car swerved as for just a moment Alex disappeared from view. The 

technician was shouting, but Alex ignored him. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He raced over to the nearest door, using the library card to swipe his way in. He 

hoped the guards would be unaware that he could open any lock and would keep 

running. His eyes were watering and he could taste nitrogen gas at the back of his 

throat. If he had thrown the liquid in a closed room, he would have killed himself, 

suffocating as the oxygen was swallowed up. Now he found himself in a bare 

industrial building with cinder-block walls and cement floors. A series of furnaces 

stood in front of him, none of them operating. A metal staircase twisted upward. 

Alex was disappointed. He had hoped the building might offer more. Somewhere to 

hide. Some way of escape. Something. 

He took the stairs. He would go up to the roof. There was a communication system 

built into the pocket calculator that Smithers had given him. He would use it to call 

MI6. With luck, they would respond before it was too late. 

The staircase rose six floors. At the top he came to an old-fashioned door with a 

push bar. Even as he reached it, he heard the main door of the building crash open 

beneath him and knew that the guards had worked out where he had gone. He had 

to fight back a growing sense of hopelessness. There really didn‟t seem to be any 

way out of this mess. So what now? A fire escape. He would make his way from the 

roof back down again and find somewhere else to hide. 

Alex had crashed through the door, which then slammed shut behind him. He found 

himself on a wide, flat roof covered with asphalt. A long silver chimney rose about 

fifty feet into the air, presumably carrying smoke from the furnaces that Alex had 

seen below. There were two air-conditioning units and a water tank. But that was 

all. There was no fire escape in sight. The roof had a low brick wall running all the 

way around the edge. The nearest building looked to be at least ten yards away—

too far to jump. Alex was six stories up with no way to climb down. He was trapped. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He could imagine the guards already climbing the staircase, making their way 

toward him. Somehow he had to keep them at bay. There were a few pieces of 

scaffolding left over from building work lying on the ground beside the water tank. 

He snatched two of them, ran back to the door, and wedged them against the 

handle, slanting them into the ground. That would at least buy him a bit of time. 

But he was still a sitting target. In a way, he had played right into their hands. 

They could leave him here all night and then pick him off at their leisure. Where 

were his friends? Alex ran back to the edge of the building, skidding to a halt 

beside the parapet. And finally he saw them. 

The school bus was parked at the far end of the main driveway. The field trip must 

have ended early, as students were already loading up. Even as he watched, he saw 

Tom Harris and James Hale climbing on board, deep in conversation. He heard a 

couple of girls laughing. It seemed incredible that they could be unaware of what 

had been going on at Greenfields while they were being shown around. And there 

were the two teachers—Mr. Gilbert and Miss Barry! Alex tried to get their 

attention, tried to call out to them, but they were too far away and his voice was 

hoarse from the nitrogen. He could only watch in despair as the door hissed shut, 

sealing his friends inside. He twisted around and looked the other way. The gate 

was already sliding open. Straik was determined to get rid of the school party as 

quickly as possible. The best Alex could hope for was one last roll call, perhaps 

delaying their departure by another few minutes. Then they would be gone. He 

would be stuck here, on his own. 

He sized up the angles. The bus would pass directly underneath him. Could he jump 

down? No. He was far too high up. Even assuming he timed it properly and landed on 

the roof, he would break his arms, his legs, and quite possibly his neck. Could he 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

wave at the driver, somehow attracting his attention? Impossible. He wouldn‟t be 

seen at this height and there was nothing he could throw down. 

He heard the sound of fists pounding against metal. A single door was all that was 

between him and the armed guards, wedged shut by two pieces of scaffolding. 

Desperately, Alex made a circuit of the roof. There were no fire escapes, no 

ladders, no ropes, nothing. The bus engine had started. It was about thirty yards 

away at the end of the driveway. At the other end, the gate was open, with 

Salisbury Plain in clear view. 

A cascade of machine-gun fire sent Alex diving for cover. The noise was deafening 

and very near. But they weren‟t shooting at him. Not yet. One of the guards at the 

top of the stairs had sprayed the door with bullets. Alex actually saw the metal 

bulging and blistering as it was hammered. It was on the verge of being blown off 

its hinges. 

The chimney . . . 

Alex was already up and running as the idea took shape in his mind. The chimney 

was modern and silver, and as far as he could see, its outer casing was fairly thin. 

He didn‟t have time to work out the measurements, but surely if it was laid out 

horizontally, it might reach across to the next rooftop. He could use it as a bridge. 

And he had the means to bring it down. 

Another burst of machine-gun fire. The door shivered in its frame. Feverishly, 

Alex reached into his backpack and took out the red gel-ink pen that Smithers had 

given him. Red was more powerful. It would do more damage. That was what 

Smithers had said. He glanced back at the door. White smoke was trickling through 

the cracks around the side. How much longer would it hold? Alex had the pen in his 

hand. He twisted the cap once then pulled the little plunger to activate it. He felt 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

it click and slammed the pen against the chimney, diving for cover behind one of 

the air-conditioning units. The pen stayed in place, held magnetically. 

The bus had yet to move. The guards were hammering at the door now, using the 

stocks of their machine guns to finish the job. There was a brief pause and then an 

explosion, louder than anything that had gone before. Hopefully the bus driver 

would hear it. He would have to stop and find out what was going on! Alex was 

crouching with his hands over his ears. He felt the blast sear across his forearms 

and the top of his head and looked up just in time to see the chimney topple like a 

felled tree, the metal close to the base grinding in protest as it was torn apart. 

It crashed down, but even as it fell, Alex saw that his plan couldn‟t work. The 

chimney was too short to reach the building opposite. It had fallen sideways, 

smashing into the low wall. The wall acted as a fulcrum, tearing the metal skin a 

second time. The chimney ended up tilting down toward the main driveway. What 

had been its top end was now about thirty feet above the road. 

The door, meanwhile, had finally collapsed, blown off its frame from one last blast 

of machine-gun fire. Half a dozen men rushed out onto the roof. 

The bus was now moving, slowly picking up speed, roaring toward the gate as if 

desperate to get out of here. In a few seconds, it would pass directly beneath 

Alex. 

One of the guards saw him and shouted. Alex stood where he was. The guard took 

aim. 

As the bus drew closer, Alex sprinted forward, as if determined to throw himself 

off the side of the building. The guard fired. Bullets skidded across the roof of 

the building, ripping up the asphalt. 

The chimney had been sliced open by the edge of the wall. It had almost broken in 

half. If it had, it would have fallen down to the road, blocking the bus. But it was 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

being held in place by a small section of the metal skin, resting on the wall and 

acting like a hinge. Alex dived headfirst into the opening. The chimney was just big 

enough for him with his backpack still strapped to his shoulders. It was like being 

inside a slide at a swimming pool. The round silver surface offered no resistance 

and Alex shot down. 

In the end, it was all about timing. If he had hit the road, he would have died. If he 

had started too soon, he might have missed the bus and been run over by it. But 

Alex had timed it perfectly. He shot out of what had once been the top of the 

chimney at the exact moment that the bus passed beneath him. For a brief second, 

he saw the roof, a yellow blur rushing past. He had only about fifteen feet to fall, 

but he knew that the impact was going to be painful. 

It was worse than he imagined. The breath was smashed out of him. His neck and 

his spine almost separated. He was sure he had broken several of his ribs. He 

rolled, spinning toward the edge. If he kept rolling and fell off, he would be left 

behind after all and it would all have been for nothing. 

Alex stretched out his arms and legs, spread-eagling himself, doing everything he 

could to stay in contact with the roof. He wondered why the driver hadn‟t stopped, 

but perhaps he hadn‟t heard anything above the noise of the engine. 

The bus reached the security gate and passed through without slowing down. Then 

it was outside the complex, accelerating across Salisbury Plain. 

Alex stayed where he was, battered and exhausted. He allowed the cold air to 

wash over him. Every part of him was in pain. Something was trickling against his 

chest and for a horrible moment he thought he had been shot. But it wasn‟t blood. 

The test tube had smashed. Smithers would just have to use whatever liquid he 

could separate from the fiber of Alex‟s jacket. Surely there would be enough of it 

to analyze. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Meanwhile, he couldn‟t travel all the way back to London on the roof. 

Just before they reached the main road, Alex crawled over to the edge and 

lowered the top half of his body so that he was hanging, upside down, outside the 

window where he had been sitting. He was lucky. Tom Harris saw him, his eyes 

widening in disbelief. Alex made a sign with one hand. Tom nodded. 

About one minute later, the bus stopped and Tom got out. Alex watched him rush 

behind a tree and pretend to be sick. He used the opportunity to slide to the edge 

and lower himself down. He limped over and joined his friend. 

“Alex!” Tom looked horrified. “What happened to you?” 

“Things didn‟t quite go as planned.” 

“You look awful!” 

“Really? I feel great. . . .” 

Tom helped Alex back to the bus. The two of them had to pass Mr. Gilbert, who 

was sitting in the front seat. Their teacher was even more shocked than Tom had 

been. He had only seen one boy leave the bus. So how was it possible for two of 

them to be returning? 

“Rider!” he gasped. “What are you doing out of the bus? What happened to you?” 

Alex didn‟t know what to say. He could only imagine what he must look like. 

Tom came to his rescue. “He fell out of the window, sir. It‟s lucky we stopped.” 

“I don‟t believe a word of it! The windows don‟t even open—” 

“It was the back door.” 

“Well . . .” The biology teacher was out of his depth. He just wanted to get back to 

London. “You‟ll see the principal first thing tomorrow morning,” he snapped. “Now 

get back to your seat.” 

Alex leaned on Tom and hobbled to the back of the bus past forty staring faces. 

Everyone would be talking about this at school the next day—but this was Alex 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Rider. Somehow, any strange behavior was to be expected. As for Alex, he still had 

the flash drive with its precious download and the sample from the test tube as an 

added bonus. He had completed his part of the bargain and he had come out of it 

more or less in one piece. And as he hadn‟t heard a word from Harry Bulman, he 

assumed that MI6 had kept their promise too. 

He sank back into his seat, reflecting that his part in all this was over. He might 

never find out what McCain and Straik had been planning—but what did it really 

matter? It was none of his business and he was just glad that he would never see 

either of them again. 

  

Desmond McCain was back in Straik‟s office, and for once it was clear that he had 

lost his composure. He was sitting cross-legged, one hand clenching and unclenching 

on his knee, and the crack that divided the two halves of his head seemed to have 

somehow widened as the damaged muscles in his jaw attempted to chew over what 

had happened. Even the silver crucifix earring had lost its shine. 

“This intruder must have been in here, in the room, when we were talking,” he 

growled. 

“I would think so.” Behind his desk, Leonard Straik licked his lips. He was blinking 

repeatedly. 

“But where?” McCain‟s great white eyes slid slowly around the office. “There! 

Behind the picture!” 

“I hardly think that there‟s room.” 

“Where else?” McCain paused, deep in thought. “What did he hear?” 

“I don‟t think he could have heard anything very much, Desmond.” Straik faltered. 

“We were only in here a couple of minutes. It‟s just lucky I noticed the flash 

drive.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“So he now has the contents of your computer.” 

“All the files are encrypted. And even if he manages to break into them, they won‟t 

give much away.” 

“What about the test tube?” 

“I don‟t think that matters either. Of course, it‟s bad news. He‟ll have the sample 

analyzed—but it won‟t tell him very much. I don‟t think anyone will be able to guess 

its significance.” 

“You don‟t think.” McCain‟s fist came pounding down on the side of his chair. Straik 

heard a dull crack. The arm of the chair had been broken in two. “Five years‟ work 

and hundreds of thousands of dollars! We‟re just a few days away from Poison 

Dawn, and you don‟t think we‟ve been compromised! Obviously, this intruder came in 

here on the back of your blasted school visit. Why did you allow it in the first 

place?” 

“We had no choice. We only rent this facility . . . the land and the buildings. We 

have to do what the government tells us, and they insisted we have a couple of 

schools in. They insisted we educate schools about GM technology.” 

“So then it was a government agent who broke in?” 

“I don‟t know, Desmond.” Straik took out a handkerchief and wiped his brow. “But I 

don‟t think it was a coincidence that the cameras malfunctioned when they did.” 

“Did any of the guards see the intruder?” 

“Quite a few of them did. And they‟re insisting it was a boy . . . a teenager.” 

“That doesn‟t make any sense at all. If it was a child, then the whole thing could 

have been . . . I don‟t know . . . a prank!” 

“He blew up a chimney on the recycling unit. And he killed a guard in the Poison 

Dome.” 

“A teenager? Then who was he? What was he doing here?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

There was a knock at the door and Dr. Beckett came in, her white coat flapping 

behind her, carrying a file. There was something military about the way she walked, 

like a soldier delivering news of a defeat. “I have the photographs,” she announced. 

“I thought you said the cameras weren‟t working,” McCain said. 

“They were jammed for about forty minutes.” Straik took the file. “But they were 

working when the bus first arrived, and I thought it might be worth our while to 

examine who exactly came here today.” 

McCain went over to the desk. The file that Beckett had brought contained a 

dozen photographs taken by the camera closest to the main gate. They were 

grainy, in black and white, but Mr. Gilbert and Miss Barry were clear enough, 

stepping down from the bus with the rest of the school group following behind. 

Straik and Beckett were both leaning forward, examining the pictures, when 

McCain suddenly stabbed down with his finger. 

“Him!” 

“Who is it, Desmond?” 

“Don‟t you recognize him, you idiot? I don‟t believe it! It‟s impossible. But there‟s no 

doubt about it. It‟s the boy from Scotland.” 

“What boy?” Then Straik realized. “The boy from the card game.” 

“Alex Rider.” McCain uttered the name with undisguised hatred. “That was what he 

called himself.” 

“I heard that name on the roll call,” Beckett muttered. “But he never left the 

group.” 

“Somebody must have answered for him,” McCain said. His finger was still pressing 

down on Alex, as if he could squash him like a bug. “It‟s definitely the same boy, 

and this is the second time he‟s crossed my path.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I thought we‟d dealt with him, Desmond.” Myra Beckett stared at the picture in 

dismay. “You said he was in the car with that journalist—” 

“Evidently, we failed.” McCain twisted away. “Which means that that irritating 

journalist is still alive as well. This boy is no mere teenager, though. Who is this 

Alex Rider? Why is he interested in us?” 

“We can find out,” Straik muttered. 

McCain nodded. “We have contacts. We need to use them. It doesn‟t matter how 

much it costs. Someone must know something about this boy . . . he clearly wasn‟t 

working alone.” McCain took one last look at the photograph. With an effort, he 

broke free. “We‟ll locate him and we‟ll bring him back here.” 

“And then?” 

“And then we‟ll find out what he knows.” 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

14 

 

FEELING THE HEAT 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

HENRY BRAY HAD BEEN THE PRINCIPAL at Brookland for seven years and 

assistant principal at another school for five years before that. He didn‟t often 

find himself lost for words, but right now that was exactly how he felt. Once again, 

he examined the boy in front of him while he tried to work out how to proceed. 

Alex Rider was different from all the other boys at Brookland. He knew that. The 

unfortunate death of his uncle in a car accident almost a year ago had clearly sent 

him off the rails. That was understandable. But Alex had barely been in school 

since then, missing week after week because of so many different illnesses that in 

the end (Mr. Bray hadn‟t told anyone he‟d done this) he had actually written to the 

doctor, suspecting that something might be going on. He had received a short note 

back. Alex had viral problems. His health was very delicate. The doctor—his name 

was Blunt—wouldn‟t be at all surprised if Alex had to miss a lot more school in the 

future. 

Alex didn‟t look ill now. He looked as if he had been in a fistfight. There were a 

number of small cuts on his forehead and the side of his cheek, and from the way 

he was standing, Bray guessed he had hurt his shoulder. He was here because of a 

report sent in by his biology teacher, Mr. Gilbert. But Alex didn‟t give any sign of 

being ashamed or nervous about what might follow. He was just angry. 

Mr. Bray sighed. “Alex. You made a very good start in year seven. All your reports 

said the same. And I am well aware of your personal circumstances. I imagine you 

were very close to your uncle.” 

“Yes, sir.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“It doesn‟t help that you‟ve had a lot of time off school . . . all these illnesses. 

Obviously, I‟ve made allowances for you. But this business yesterday . . . frankly, 

I‟m appalled. As I understand it, the bus had an emergency door that you opened, 

and you managed to fall out. Is that correct?” 

“Yes, sir.” 

“I‟m amazed you could be so irresponsible. You could have seriously hurt yourself. 

And there were other young people on the bus too. Didn‟t you stop to think that 

you might cause an accident? I can‟t imagine why you would do such a thoughtless 

thing.” Mr. Bray took off his glasses and laid them on his desk. It was something he 

always did when he was about to pronounce sentence. “I hate the idea of your 

missing any more lessons, but I‟m afraid I am going to have to make an example of 

you. You are going to have one day‟s suspension from school. You are to go home 

straightaway, and I‟ve written a note for you to take with you.” 

Half an hour later, Alex crossed the school yard with a sense of injustice burning 

in him. He had survived poisonous plants and insects, hand-to-hand combat, and 

machine-gun fire. He had downloaded the contents of Straik‟s computer and stolen 

a sample of whatever he was brewing at Greenfields. Jack would have already 

delivered them to the MI6 offices on Liverpool Street. And what was his reward? 

To be treated like a naughty schoolboy, sent home with a note. 

The first lesson had already begun, and nobody noticed Alex as he made his way 

out of the gates and down the road toward the bus stop. As he walked, he found 

himself going over the events of the day before. The appearance of Desmond 

McCain had completely thrown him. What was the head of an international charity 

doing in a bio research center in Wiltshire? He was planning something with 

Leonard Straik. That much was clear. The two of them had talked about shipping a 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

thousand gallons of the liquid—and they had said that it was alive. But what was it 

and what was it for? The more Alex thought about it, the less sense it made. 

McCain had been to prison once in his life, and he had to be heading that way again. 

Alex was certain now—not that he had ever really doubted it—that his near death 

in Scotland, along with Sabina and her father, had been no accident. McCain had 

tried to kill them. He was prepared to do anything to protect himself. MI6 had 

wanted to investigate Leonard Straik because he might be a security risk. In fact, 

he was using Greenfields for something much bigger than anyone suspected. 

And then Alex remembered something he had overheard while he was in the office. 

McCain was going to send the Becket woman somewhere the following day—today. A 

place called Elm‟s Cross. The name rang a faint bell. Alex continued walking until he 

arrived at an Internet cafe not far from Brompton Cemetery. The place served 

disgusting coffee, but it charged only two dollars for half an hour on one of its 

ancient computers. At least it had broadband. 

Alex paid and chose a computer at the very back, away from the window. The owner 

glanced at him briefly, then returned to a crumpled copy of The Sun. Alex Googled 

Elm‟s Cross and waited for the page to come up on the screen. The results were 

disappointing. There was a packaging company with that name in Warminster, a 

restaurant in Bradford, and a film studio in west London that had apparently closed 

down a year ago. None of them could possibly be connected. Except . . . 

“What about the shooting?” 

Straik to McCain. When Alex had heard them, he‟d automatically assumed that 

they were talking about guns. But suppose they had actually meant shooting film? 

Alex looked for more information about the studio. It was on the other side of 

Hayes, not far from Heathrow Airport. According to an old news report, a raft of 

British comedies had been shot there after the war, but the increasing noise of 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

aircraft along with the decline in British film production had combined to put it out 

of business. There was talk of the land being developed . . . affordable housing and 

more office space. The last film that had been shot there was an advertisement 

for the shopping chain Woolworth‟s. It seemed appropriate. A few weeks later, 

Woolworth‟s had gone bust too. 

Alex had made his decision. Jack wouldn‟t be expecting him, and even if the school 

had managed to tell her what was happening, she wouldn‟t be too worried if he took 

his time turning up. He would have to be careful. He was still in school uniform and 

that would certainly attract attention, being out on the street in the middle of the 

day—but he doubted there would be many policemen around, where he was going. 

He took the subway from Fulham Broadway and a taxi the rest of the way. Elm‟s 

Cross was in a strange derelict area that had somehow been forgotten by the 

housing estates, the industrial zones, and the soulless strip malls that surrounded 

it. As Alex paid the taxi driver, there was a sudden roar and he looked up to see 

the underbelly of a 747 as it lurched out of the sky toward the main runway of 

Heathrow. In the distance he could make out the M4 highway, raised up on 

concrete spurs, injecting London with a never-ending stream of cars and trucks. 

The driver looked at him suspiciously. “Shouldn‟t you be in school?” he asked. 

Alex tipped him generously. “I‟m on a school project,” he replied. “We‟re writing 

about air pollution.” 

The lie had come easily. Alex could actually taste the exhaust fumes in the air, and 

he couldn‟t imagine what it would be like to live with it, day in and day out. He 

wondered what he was doing. Less than twenty-four hours ago, he had been 

congratulating himself on a mission accomplished. MI6 had what they wanted. So 

why was he here, quite possibly putting his head back in the noose? 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He was angry. That was part of the reason. But Alex knew it was more than that. 

Mr. Bray might have given him the excuse, but there was part of him that needed 

to investigate, to uncover the answers. That part had been deliberately cultivated 

by MI6 and his uncle—Ian Rider. Using him wasn‟t enough. First, they had turned 

him into someone who wanted to be used. 

Alex hoisted his backpack onto his shoulder and set off. He had given the taxi 

driver an address about a quarter of a mile from his true destination—just in case 

he had taken it upon himself to call the police and warn them about a boy cutting 

off from school. He passed through an empty area with what looked like a reservoir 

on one side and a wide expanse of dirty, litter-strewn grass on the other. A wire 

fence stretched out ahead of him. Now he had to be careful. Desmond McCain had 

said he was coming here today. If he happened to drive past, Alex would stick out 

like a sore thumb, and this time there were no witnesses. 

  

ELM’S CROSS STUDIOS  

PRIVATE  

WARNING: 24-HOUR SURVEILLANCE 

  

 The sign hung on the fence outside the main gate, but Alex wasn‟t sure he believed 

it. How could there be round-the-clock surveillance when there were no cameras? 

There were no guards in sight either. The paint on the sign had faded, with rust 

speckling through. And the gate itself was open, inviting him in. 

Alex could see a paved driveway leading down to a cluster of buildings, most of 

them low-rise with long, narrow windows running horizontally, just beneath the 

roof. They might once have been surrounded by manicured lawns, but the site had 

become overgrown with long grass and shrubs running rampant. In the middle of it 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

all, there was a row of three hangars, big enough to house planes . . . although they 

long ago would have ceased to fly. The whole place looked sad and abandoned. 

He walked in. If security men appeared, he would just have to bluff it out. With a 

bit of luck, nobody here would know what had happened the day before. And 

although the guards at Greenfields had been armed, it was very unlikely that they 

would be toting guns right next to a major international airport. 

Nobody stopped him. There were definitely no cameras. Alex passed a couple of 

Dumpsters, filled to overflowing. A lot of the contents were household rubbish—

old cartons and broken pieces of furniture. But there were also oddities: a plastic 

cactus, a swordfish, a scaled-down replica of the Statue of Liberty missing the 

hand holding the torch. He thought he saw a car parked on the other side of some 

shrubs and was about to duck out of sight when he realized it was a black saloon 

BMW, left over from the Second World War, burned out and resting on bricks 

instead of tires. He was surrounded by the remnants of old films that had been 

made, seen, and forgotten. Elm‟s Cross had once been a dream factory, but the 

machinery had long since shut down. 

He came to the first of the hangars, with the words STUDIO A stenciled in yellow 

letters on the corrugated iron wall. The huge sliding doors were open, but there 

was nothing inside apart from a puddle of oily water and a pile of broken wood. 

Cables hung down from the ceiling. A pigeon cooed somewhere in the rafters, the 

sound amplified by the empty space. The second hangar was the same. Alex was 

beginning to think he was wasting his time. There was nobody here. And what would 

someone like Desmond McCain want with an abandoned film studio, anyway? He 

must have been referring to a different Elm‟s Cross after all. Alex looked at his 

watch. Quarter past eleven. Jack would be wondering where he was. He took out 

his mobile phone, thinking he would call her. There was no signal. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

“It‟s ready, ma‟am . . .” 

“Then I‟ll leave you to it.” 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Alex heard the voices and crouched behind a low brick wall—in fact made of 

painted cardboard and wood, another old piece of film scenery. He had already 

recognized the voice of Dr. Myra Beckett, and a moment later, there she was, 

walking out of the third studio dressed in a raincoat, which she had wrapped 

tightly around her waist. There were two men with her. Alex looked around for 

anyone else, but it seemed they were alone. 

Beckett nodded at the men. “I‟ll see you back at Greenfields,” she said. 

For the first time, Alex noticed a couple of cars parked in the narrow driveway 

between Studios B and C. Beckett got into one of them and drove off. The two men 

went back into the studio. What could they possibly be doing there? Alex knew 

that he‟d already been in enough trouble. Jack would kill him if she found out he‟d 

come here. But he couldn‟t just back out now. He had to know. 

Beckett had left. Alex crept over to the studio entrance, fearful that the two men 

would reemerge at any moment. He peered inside. There was no sign of them, but it 

seemed that this studio was still in use. He could make out powerful lights on the 

other side of a huge screen stretched over a metal frame. The screen was a 

barrier between Alex and whatever was happening, but at least it was dark on this 

side. He could hear the two men muttering in the distance and knew that, for the 

moment, he was safe. He slipped inside. 

“Some of this stuff must be worth a fortune.” 

“You heard what she said. Leave it!” 

The two voices carried easily in the enclosed space. Alex made his way along the 

back of the screen, keeping close to the outer wall. McCain was closing this place 

down. That is what he had said in Straik‟s office. Perhaps Mr. Bray had done Alex a 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

favor after all. If he hadn‟t been suspended, he might never have had the 

opportunity to find out what was going on. 

Then the two men appeared, coming around the side of the screen. But for the 

darkness, they would have seen Alex at once. Alex slipped behind a pile of boxes, 

crouching low. The men walked straight past him, so close that he could have 

reached out and touched them. He watched them disappear the way he had come. 

Good. Now he was on his own. 

The sound of the door slamming shut echoed all around him like a gunshot. Alex 

twisted around, but he knew already there was nothing he could do. He heard the 

rattle of a chain being drawn through the handles, followed by the snap of a 

padlock. The men had finished here. They had left the lights on. But they had 

locked and bolted the main door. He heard their footsteps as they walked away 

and, a moment later, the sound of a car engine starting up. He would just have to 

hope there was another way out. 

Alex straightened up, then continued around the side of the screen. And suddenly 

he was no longer in London, no longer in a grubby industrial area near Heathrow 

Airport. 

He was in Africa. 

Alex had never actually been to Africa, yet the scene that surrounded him was 

unmistakable. He was in the middle of a cluster of mud huts, half a dozen of them, 

with no windows and roofs made out of straw. They had been constructed close to 

each other in a dusty enclosure, surrounded by a wooden picket fence. An 

assortment of clothes, old but brightly colored, hung on a washing line between two 

stunted acacia trees. To one side, there was a well with a few objects—pots, pans, 

some tin plates—scattered around it. A shield shaped like a leaf and two wooden 

spears had been propped up against one of the doorways as if guarding the way in. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

It was only when he looked up that the illusion was broken. Electric arc lamps 

blazed down from a network of catwalks high above. Together, they were creating 

the heat and light of an African summer‟s day. The giant screen was actually a 

cyclorama made out of a bright green fabric. Alex understood enough about film 

technology to know that a computer could insert anything into the green 

background. A flick of a switch and the village could be in a jungle, a desert, or 

beneath a clear blue sky. 

But what sort of film was being made? With a shudder, Alex realized that the 

village was populated—but not with anything that resembled life. There were three 

dead cows lying on their sides, their legs rigid, their stomachs bloated, their eyes 

glassy and empty. They had to be made out of plastic. There was no smell, no flies 

swarming over them as there would have been out in the wild. But that didn‟t take 

away any of the horror. From the look of them, if these animals had been real, they 

would have died in pain. 

They weren‟t alone. As Alex moved farther into the set, almost drawn in against his 

will, he saw what had once been a large bird, perhaps an eagle, now a crumpled heap 

of bone and feathers lying in the dust. It was only when he reached the edge of 

the village that he came upon the first human being. A little black boy, maybe two 

or three years old, was lying curled up, one matchstick arm drawn across his eyes. 

Alex felt sick. He could tell that it was just a dummy, not a real child. But who 

would create something like this? And why? 

He had seen enough. He could work out the reason for all of this later. Alex just 

wanted to be back out in the fresh air. He looked around him for a second door and 

saw one, set in one of the walls of the hangar. He tried it, but it was locked too. 

There were no windows. He looked up. He could see two barred skylights set in the 

roof, but there was no way he was going to be able to reach them, even if he 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

climbed up to the lighting platforms. A rectangular air-conditioning shaft ran the 

full length of the hangar, suspended from the ceiling by a series of metal brackets. 

He might be able to reach the skylights if he climbed on top of it—but even then, 

how would he cut his way through the bars? 

Perhaps he could blow them up. He still had the second gel-ink pen that Smithers 

had given him. He was already taking off his backpack when he remembered. He 

had left the pencil case with the pen and the pocket calculator beside his bed. He 

checked his mobile. There was no signal. So it looked as if he was just going to have 

to wait here until someone came back. 

And then the whole world burst into flames. 

Alex didn‟t know what was more shocking—the fact that it was so silent, or so 

unexpected. All around him the ground simply erupted, tongues of fire shooting 

upward as if powered by hidden pipes below. Alex could have been in the middle of 

a minefield. About half a dozen bombs, incendiaries perhaps, were being set off, 

one by one. Alex was thrown off his feet. He knew that if one of the devices went 

off directly underneath him, he would be killed. He threw his arm across his eyes, 

protecting them from the heat. 

Now he understood what Beckett and the two men had been doing. Closing this 

place down meant destroying it. The three of them must have just finished laying 

the explosive charges when he had come across them. They had been set off either 

by timer switches or remote control. It made no difference either way to Alex. 

The flames were roaring all around him. It was as if he had been locked inside some 

huge oven. He had only minutes to break out of here. Very soon he would begin to 

suffocate. And if he passed out, that would be the end of him. Everything in here 

would burn. There would be nothing left. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The green screen had caught alight. Alex saw it dissolve like a huge sheet of paper, 

turning black and then orange and red as the flames burst through. His eyes were 

streaming now. It was difficult to see, almost impossible to think. The doors were 

locked. The skylights were out of reach. The walls were metal. The mobile was 

dead. He had nothing with him. There was no way out. 

The air-conditioning shaft . . . 

It was a square tunnel hanging underneath the ceiling, plugged into the wall. It 

brought air into the building. So it had to lead outside. The silver shaft was big 

enough to crawl through, and Alex thought he could make out an access panel. He 

wiped a sleeve against his eyes. All the clothes on the washing line were ablaze. 

One of the huts had vanished, consumed by a whirlpool of fire. Suddenly, all the 

lights blinked out. The main electric cable must have melted. Now the hangar was 

an intense red, lit only by the inferno that was destroying it. 

Coughing, forcing himself to suck in the hot air, Alex started forward. Without 

knowing quite why, he grabbed hold of the shield and carried it over to the ladder. 

It would make it more difficult to climb, yet somehow he had a feeling he would 

need it. He reached out and grabbed the first rung. It was already warm. In a 

minute‟s time, it would be too hot to hold. 

Dragging the shield with him, he climbed up to the walkway. The air-conditioning 

shaft was directly above him, running about thirty yards to the far wall. He was 

going to have to climb into it and then crawl the whole distance with the flames 

roaring underneath him. Alex stared at the distance across the studio with a sense 

of despair that made him weak. It was going to be like feeding himself into an oven. 

If he didn‟t move fast, he would roast before he reached the other end. 

But would there even be a way out? There had to be. There was no other choice. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The access panel to the ventilation shaft was fastened with four nuts and bolts. 

Alex was lucky. They turned in his hand. But even that wasn‟t easy. The smoke was 

blinding him. There was a foul chemical smell—many of the props must have been 

made of synthetic materials—and even as he dragged at what little air remained, 

he felt sick. Finally the fourth bolt came free and the panel fell away, bouncing off 

the walkway and spinning down below. Alex watched it disappear into the fire. 

There was nothing but fire now. Beckett and her colleagues had done their work all 

too well. 

He pulled himself into the open shaft, sliding the shield in front of him. Now he 

was glad that he had brought it. Even as he crouched in the square corridor, he 

could feel the metal underneath him heating up. The shield would at least protect 

his hands. Quickly, moving with difficulty in the confined space, he tore off his 

backpack and dropped it ahead of him. Then came his jacket. He folded it under his 

knees. It would have to provide a cushion against the heat. He was already 

sweating. He could see the air rippling in front of him. He fixed his eyes on the end 

of the tunnel. There was a square of daylight, another access panel. That was what 

he had to reach. 

He set off. 

He could no longer see the flames, but he could imagine them, stretching out, 

licking the metal surface directly beneath him. He was shuffling forward as quickly 

as he could, his hands resting on the shield, his knees on the jacket. But there 

wasn‟t enough room to move properly. For just one moment he lost his balance and 

his palm and five fingers landed on the metal. He winced. The surface was already 

too hot to touch. He wasn‟t going to make it. The end was too far away. 

Push the shield. Draw in his knees. Push the shield. Draw in his knees. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

His head was swimming. There was almost no air left in the tunnel. And the jacket 

was burning. Most of his weight was on his knees, and he could feel the heat coming 

through. There was a dull clang behind him and he glanced back to see that the 

access panel was filled with smoke and the metal was buckling. There was certainly 

no way back. It occurred to him that the entire shaft could come free, that the 

brackets holding it up could melt or break loose and that the whole thing could 

plunge down, smashing into the studio floor and the roaring fire below. But he 

couldn‟t let that possibly stop him. 

His knees were hurting now and he‟d had to move his hands to the very edge of the 

shield, gripping the sides. It was fortunate that the African shield seemed to be 

the real thing. If it had been made of plastic, it would already have melted. Alex 

could hear someone grunting and realized it was him. Every movement was an 

effort: fighting the heat, fighting to breathe, forcing himself not to give up. He 

was more than halfway across. He could see the exit—a metal grille—ahead of him. 

He wouldn‟t have time to turn any screws, even assuming there were any. What if 

the grille was welded into place? No. Don‟t even think it. Alex shuffled faster and 

faster. Draw in the knees. Push the shield. 

The last ten yards were the worst. Alex‟s vision was blurred. He could feel tears 

streaming down his face. But then he was there. The grille was in front of him. He 

reached out and grabbed hold of it, curling his fingers over the metal slats. It 

wouldn‟t move. He shook it. Something whispered behind him and he turned around 

to see a ball of fire rolling in slow motion from the far end toward him. There was 

only one thing to do. He slid the shield behind him then somehow maneuvered 

himself so that he was lying on his back. His shoulders screamed at him. The metal 

was too hot. He could smell his own clothes beginning to burn. He lashed out with 

both feet, smashing them into the grille. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

Nothing. 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The fireball was getting closer, floating in space, already halfway down the shaft. 

He kicked a second time and the grille swung open. Still on his back, Alex drew 

himself forward, using the balls of his feet. He hooked his heels over the edge of 

the wall and somehow spilled out into the open. 

He was falling. How high up was he? Had he done all this just to break his neck 

when he hit the concrete below? But he was lucky. The ground rose up at the back 

of the studio and he hit soft grass, the slope of the hill. He rolled over several 

times, then came to a halt. There were flames above him, shooting out of the little 

square that had just provided him with an exit. Although the metal walls were 

keeping most of it contained, smoke was seeping through the cracks, rising into the 

air. Alex heard the glass shatter as the skylights broke and thicker smoke began 

to billow out. Coughing, wiping his eyes, he got to his feet. 

The first fire engines arrived ten minutes later, followed by the police. A pilot 

coming in to land at Heathrow had seen what was happening and radioed the 

authorities. By the time the firemen bundled out and began uncoiling their hoses, 

the whole of Studio C was a raging inferno. Not a single piece of evidence of the 

filming would remain inside. 

The firemen did what they could, but in the end it was easier just to let the 

building burn. Meanwhile, the police checked the rest of the complex, making sure 

there was no one else around. None of them had noticed a single schoolboy limping 

along the main road, looking for a taxi to take him home. 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

15 

 

Q & A 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

 

“ALEX RIDER IS AN AGENT working for the Special Operations Division of MI6. I 

know that‟s hard to believe, but I promise you it‟s true. He lives in Chelsea, just off 

the King‟s Road, with a housekeeper who acts as his guardian. Her name is Jack 

Starbright. He has no relatives that I know of. His uncle, a man named Ian Rider, 

was also a spy, but he was killed. That was when the kid got recruited.” 

Harry Bulman unwrapped a stick of chewing gum, rolled it carefully between his 

finger and thumb, and slid it into his mouth. He was sitting in a makeshift office 

that stood on the edge of a building site in London, not far from King‟s Cross. 

There was a cheap desk, three plastic chairs, and a fridge with a kettle and coffee 

mugs. The walls were covered with architect‟s drawings. Outside, work had finished 

for the day and it looked as if everyone had gone home. There were two men with 

him. He recognized one of them. Desmond McCain had been in the papers often 

enough for his face to be familiar. He was dressed entirely in black, one leg 

crossed over the other, his hands resting in his lap. Bulman could see his own 

reflection in the brightly polished leather of McCain‟s shoe. The other man had 

been introduced as Leonard Straik. He was older than McCain, with silver hair 

rising over his forehead. He looked nervous. 

Bulman was also neatly dressed. He had put on a suit and tie for this meeting, and 

his briefcase, with all his notes, was at his feet. But something had gone out of him 

since he had turned up at Alex‟s house. His confidence and swagger had been 

replaced by a dull sense of resentment. He was a man who had been injured, and it 

showed. He talked slowly, measuring his words, and the hatred in his voice was 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

unmistakable. Even the way he chewed the gum had a mechanical quality. He could 

have been chewing raw flesh. 

After he had been released by the police, Bulman had gone home. He had opened a 

bottle of whisky and drunk half of it, staring at the wall. He had been terrified. In 

a matter of hours, his entire life had been stripped away from him and—this was 

the worst part—it could happen again at any time. The man called Crawley had made 

it absolutely clear. They could just snap their fingers and he would vanish off the 

face of the earth, spirited away to some mental hospital where he would be left to 

rot. They were probably watching him even as he sat there. He wondered if his 

apartment was bugged. Almost certainly. For the first time in his life, he sensed 

how powerless he would be if the system—society, the government, whatever—

turned against him. They had given him a warning and it had struck him in the 

heart. 

Harry Bulman was many things, but he wasn‟t stupid. He knew that there was going 

to be no newspaper story about Alex Rider, no front-page headlines, no publishing 

deal. Even if he dared try again, there wasn‟t an editor in town who would go 

anywhere near him. The Internet? Despite what he had told Alex, he knew there 

was no point in posting the story in cyberspace. It would do nothing for him, other 

than getting him killed. 

But what rankled him most wasn‟t Crawley. It wasn‟t MI6. It was that he had been 

defeated by a fourteen-year-old boy. Mr. Alex Bloody Rider. The kid was probably 

laughing at him. 

When the phone had rung a few weeks later and Bulman had heard the voice of one 

of his contacts, the ex-soldier who had helped him put the story together in the 

first place, the reporter was tempted to hang up. Fortunately, the man didn‟t 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

mention Alex Rider. He simply said that something interesting had turned up and 

he wondered if Bulman would like to meet at the usual place. 

The usual place was the Crown pub on Fleet Street. Bulman used his old army 

training to make sure he wasn‟t being followed, but he still insisted on walking to a 

second pub on the other side of town before he said a word. And even then, he 

chose a back room with the music turned up loud and nobody else in sight. 

And that was when he heard that someone else was now asking questions about 

Alex Rider, and that they were prepared to pay good money for information. It was 

all being done very discreetly. The friend didn‟t even know who wanted to know—

but the money involved had a lot of zeroes and there was a telephone number he 

could pass on if Bulman was interested. 

Bulman took twenty-four hours to come to a decision. Every instinct told him that 

Alex Rider had an enemy and that they weren‟t doing this to buy him a surprise 

present for his birthday. There was a risk putting himself forward. He could be 

walking into a trap. But even as he mulled it over, two thoughts stayed in his mind. 

The first was the money, which he needed. The second was the possibility that he 

could do Alex serious harm. 

In the end he made the call. 

He had been passed from one anonymous voice to another. There had been three 

different people asking him questions before he had finally been told to come here, 

and he was fairly sure that his own background, everything about him, would have 

been checked. But the way that it was all being handled reassured him. Whoever 

these people were, they were afraid of being found out, just like him. And the 

more careful they were, the safer he would be. 

Finally, the date for this meeting had been set. According to the signs on the 

street, this was the site of a new hostel for the homeless being built by the 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

international charity First Aid. Even so, Bulman was astonished to find himself 

face-to-face with the Reverend Desmond McCain. Of course he remembered the 

story of the Parliament member who had gone bad, the building that had burned 

down and the false insurance claim. He‟d heard that McCain had reformed. For the 

past five years he had been devoting himself to charity projects. Well, obviously he 

wasn‟t quite as saintly as people thought. It had already occurred to Bulman that 

there might be another story in all this, but of course, he kept the thought to 

himself. 

There had been no pleasantries and no introductions. No offers of tea or coffee. 

After Bulman had sat down, McCain had opened the meeting as if he really were a 

vicar addressing his congregation. 

“I appreciate your coming here today, Mr. Bulman. It is most generous of you. I 

understand you have information about a boy named Alex Rider. Please would you 

be good enough to tell me everything you know.” 

And Bulman had done just that. Once he had started, he found it all pouring out of 

him, everything he had learned during his research. It had been difficult to stop. 

“They recruited a child!” McCain had listened in silence, but now he turned to 

Straik. “ „For they are a wicked generation, children who have no faith.‟ We should 

have been warned by the book of Deuteronomy, chapter thirty-two.” 

“He‟s been incredibly successful,” Bulman said, although it annoyed him to have to 

admit it. “I have notes on his last three assignments, and there may have been 

others.” 

“You have his address?” 

“I‟ve actually been to his house. I know where he goes to school. I‟ve written it all 

down for you. I can tell you everything you want to know.” Bulman didn‟t want to 

push his luck, but he couldn‟t resist asking a few questions of his own. It was too 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

good an opportunity to miss. He began innocently. “What is this place? You‟re 

building a hostel?” 

“It‟s a dreadful thing, the number of young homeless people there are in London,” 

he said—and to Bulman‟s surprise, he actually had to brush away a tear. “Out on the 

streets with no food or shelter! First Aid was given this land by one of the city‟s 

most prominent developers, and I‟m happy to say that we have raised enough cash 

to build somewhere they can be looked after with food and warm clothes.” 

“You do a lot of charity.” 

“I have made it my life‟s work.” 

It was the moment to ask what Bulman really wanted to know. “So why are you 

interested in Alex, Mr. McCain?” he continued casually. “I have to tell you, 

whatever you do with that kid is fine with me. But I would be interested to know—” 

“I‟m sure you would, Mr. Bulman.” The round white eyes settled on him, and for a 

moment he shuddered. “You are a journalist, I understand.” 

“That‟s right.” 

“I would hate to think that you might be tempted to write about this meeting 

today.” 

“That depends how much you‟re going to pay me.” 

“We‟ve already agreed on the price,” Straik muttered. “Twenty thousand dollars, in 

cash.” 

Bulman licked his lips. He could taste the mint from the chewing gum. “I agreed to 

that price before I realized that Mr. McCain was involved,” he said. “But I thought, 

under the circumstances, that we might renegotiate.” 

“I agree with you,” McCain said. “That‟s exactly what I‟ve decided to do.” 

He took out a gun and shot the journalist three times; once in the head, once in the 

throat, and once in the chest. Bulman‟s last gesture was one of surprise. His eyes 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

widened even as his hands flew up and his body jerked in the chair. Then he 

slumped back. Blood trickled down from the three bullet holes, spreading across his 

shirt. 

“Was that completely wise?” Straik asked. 

“It was unavoidable,” McCain replied. He slipped the gun back into his pocket. “He 

wasn‟t going to keep quiet. He was greedy. A week from now or a year from now, he 

would have made himself a nuisance.” 

“I‟m sure. But are we safe?” 

“I would doubt very much that he told anyone he was coming here. There‟s nothing 

to connect him with you or me. He was a journalist. Now he‟s a dead journalist. Who 

really cares about the difference?” 

“And what about Alex Rider?” Straik got up and went over to the window. He made 

a signal and a moment later there was the sound of an engine starting up. “We can‟t 

go ahead, Desmond. Poison Dawn is finished.” 

“No.” McCain hadn‟t raised his voice, but the single word was dark and thunderous. 

The two of them had known each other for years, but at that moment Straik 

wondered if he fully understood what went on inside the other man‟s head. There 

was a sort of madness there. He wouldn‟t listen to any argument. “We have been 

planning this too long,” McCain said. “We‟ve spent too much time and too much 

money. Everything is in place.” 

“But if MI6 knows what we‟re doing . . .” 

“They can‟t know. It‟s impossible.” 

“They sent the boy. First to Scotland and then to Greenfields.” 

“I‟m not so sure.” McCain glanced at Bulman as if he‟d forgotten that he‟d just shot 

him and was expecting him to make some comment. “When Alex Rider came to 

Kilmore Castle, he was a guest of another journalist, Edward Pleasure. There was a 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

teenage girl too. When he came to Greenfields, he was with a school party. It was 

quite different. I don‟t quite know what‟s going on here, but it may not be quite as 

cut and dried as it seems.” 

“Even so . . .” 

McCain held a hand up for silence. “We are not canceling Poison Dawn,” he said. 

“And certainly not yet. It seems to me that we have to meet with this Alex Rider 

and have a little talk.” 

“You think he‟ll just walk in here?” 

“I have something else in mind.” McCain stood up. “We are about to make an 

unimaginable amount of money,” he said. “Two hundred million dollars. Maybe more. 

But that means we have to take risks. More than that, we have to make sure that 

we move one step ahead of the opposition. And that‟s exactly what we‟re going to 

do.” 

He reached forward and grabbed Harry Bulman by the front of his shirt. The 

journalist had never been a small man, and now he had become, in every sense, a 

dead weight. Even so, McCain pulled him effortlessly to his feet and dragged him 

over to the door. Still holding him, he stepped outside. A mechanical digger had 

started up while he was talking with Straik and it was waiting for him on the other 

side of the door with its metal arm raised. There was a driver sitting behind the 

window, smoking. McCain threw down the body and the driver revved up the engine 

and trundled forward. There was a crunch of machinery as the arm was lowered 

and the dead man was picked up. Then the digger reversed, carrying Bulman toward 

the muddy excavation that would soon be his grave. 

McCain watched him go. “Well, it looks as if Mr. Bulman finally got what every 

journalist wants,” he said. 

Straik glanced at him. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

“A scoop.” 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

McCain had made his decision. He set off, avoiding the puddles so that he wouldn‟t 

get his shoes dirty as he made his way toward his car. 

  

“So what exactly do you think is going on?” 

Even as Alan Blunt posed the question, a waiter approached his table with the main 

course: steak and kidney pie for him, a tuna salad for Mrs. Jones. The two of them 

preferred not to talk as the plates were positioned and the wine was poured. They 

were having lunch at Blunt‟s club, the Mandarin, in Whitehall. And although all the 

waiters had received security clearance, the two of them preferred not to talk 

while there was any chance of being overheard. A great many members of the 

Mandarin were either politicians or intelligence chiefs, and it was said to be the 

most unfriendly place in London. Nobody trusted anybody. Members very rarely 

spoke to each other at all. 

That morning, Blunt and his deputy had been given a full briefing by the chief 

science officer at MI6, a fiercely intelligent woman called Redwing. She had 

analyzed the liquid that had seeped into Alex Rider‟s jacket after the test tube he 

had stolen had smashed. Her report—she was always thorough—had begun with 

wool, polyester, and apple juice. The first two, of course, were the materials of the 

jacket itself. The third had perhaps been a spill during school lunch. 

But the rest of the ingredients had been more interesting. According to Redwing, 

the test tube had contained something that she called bitrites infestans. This was 

essentially a biological soup that seemed to have been developed from a variety of 

different mushrooms. It was too soon to say which mushrooms exactly had been 

used, but preliminary tests were surprising. The liquid was completely harmless. It 

even had a nutritional value. Although it would taste disgusting, it could be 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

consumed by humans or animals with no side effects. Redwing had eaten once or 

twice at the Mandarin, so she had concluded by saying, “They could serve it at your 

club, Mr. Blunt, and you might not even send it back. Why they‟re making so much 

of it is a little puzzling. A thousand gallons? Is that what your agent said? Well, I 

can‟t tell you what they‟re going to do with it, but I can assure you that the worst 

it would give you is indigestion. . . .” 

Alex had told Jack what had happened at Greenfields, and she had in turn 

informed MI6. The appearance of Desmond McCain, the chase through the 

complex, the Poison Dome, the escape from the roof . . . they knew all of this. But, 

like Alex, they still had no clear idea what exactly was going on. 

The waiter retreated and Mrs. Jones tried to answer Blunt‟s question. “I‟m not at 

all surprised that McCain is up to no good,” she said. “He has a criminal record, 

after all.” 

“Didn‟t he convert to Christianity?” 

“So he claims—and to be fair, his charity, First Aid, has done some very good work. 

But after what Alex has told us . . .” 

“Of course.” This time, Blunt was going to believe everything Alex had said. After 

all, as much as it embarrassed him to admit it, the boy had been right in the past 

and MI6 had been proved wrong. “Is there any link between McCain and this man 

Leonard Straik?” he asked. 

“None that we‟ve been able to find.” 

“What do we know about McCain‟s movements in the past five years?” 

“I‟m having a report prepared. It‟ll be on your desk this afternoon.” 

Blunt broke the crust on his pie and examined the contents. The food at the 

Mandarin Club was not good, but the members liked it that way. It reminded them 

of school. “I have to say, I‟m quite worried about all this,” he said. “I always had a 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

feeling that the department would have to turn its attention to GM food one day. 

There are people out there doing things that half the world doesn‟t even 

understand.” 

“We are what we eat.” Mrs. Jones had lost her appetite. She put down her knife 

and fork. 

“That was why I was interested in Mr. Straik. And if he‟s working hand-in-hand 

with McCain, that‟s certainly alarming. We need to know what the two of them are 

up to.” 

“What about Alex?” Mrs. Jones asked. 

“As usual, Alex has done an extremely good job. We really are going to have to 

make sure we recruit him full-time after he finishes college. He‟s already shown 

himself to be more resourceful than a great many of our adult agents.” Blunt stuck 

his fork into the pie and pulled out a piece of rather fatty meat covered in thick 

brown gravy. “But as far as this business is concerned, he‟s no longer involved. 

Maybe you should drop him a note, Mrs. Jones. We‟ve treated him badly in the 

past, but perhaps we could send him a brief thank-you? And maybe we should 

enclose a bag of candy.” 

Alan Blunt began to eat his lunch. He was still puzzled about the mushroom soup, 

but his department would work on it. That was the important thing. In the 

meantime, Alex Rider was already out of his mind. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

16 

 

SPECIAL DELIVERY 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

ALEX COULD TELL JACK was in a bad mood. She had made the breakfast as she 

did every morning—boiled eggs for him, fruit and muesli for her. There had been a 

freshly ironed jacket waiting for him in his room. But she had stamped around the 

kitchen in silence, and when she had loaded the dishwasher, she had slid the plates 

in as if she had a personal grudge against them. 

He knew what had upset her. “Jack,” he said. “I‟m sorry.” 

“Are you?” She lifted up the toaster and wiped away imaginary crumbs. 

“I am. Really.” 

Jack turned around and let out a sigh. She could never stay angry for long and they 

both knew it. “I just don‟t understand you sometimes,” she said. “We both agreed 

that Greenfields wasn‟t your business. You did what you were told and you were 

lucky to get out alive. So what on earth did you think you were up to?” 

“I don‟t know.” Alex thought for a moment. “I just felt angry after being told off 

by Mr. Bray. And I thought, if I could only find out what McCain was doing . . .” 

“What exactly is he doing?” Jack sat down at the table. “You say there was a film 

set, an African village. But why? What‟s the point?” 

“I‟ve been thinking about that. McCain runs a charity. First Aid. They have appeals 

all over the world. Maybe that‟s his plan. He wants to raise money for something 

that hasn‟t happened.” 

“A fake charity appeal.” 

“Exactly. He shows a film of some village that doesn‟t exist. People send in money. 

He gets to keep it.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Jack thought about it for a moment, and then shook her head. “It wouldn‟t work, 

Alex. These days, everything is on TV or in the newspapers. People would find out 

soon enough if it wasn‟t true.” 

“Can you think of anything else?” 

“No. But I think we should go back to MI6 and leave it to them this time.” She 

glanced meaningfully at him. “Okay?” 

Alex smiled. “That‟s what I‟d already decided,” he said. “Do you mind going back?” 

“Of course not,” Jack replied. “I‟m beginning to wonder where this is all going to 

end. You go to a party in Scotland and you end up at the bottom of a lake. A school 

field trip almost lands you in the hospital. And now this!” She took one of Alex‟s 

toast slices and bit it in half. “The trouble is, you‟ve got too much of the spy in you. 

It‟s all your uncle‟s fault. And your father‟s. And your grandfather‟s. For all we 

know, he was probably a spy too.” 

Alex looked at his watch. It was a quarter past eight. “I ought to be on my way to 

school,” he said. 

“Yes.” Jack nodded. “Let‟s not get into any more trouble with Mr. Bray.” 

Alex ran up to his room, collected his books, and put on the spare jacket. He was 

about to leave when he noticed the black gel-ink pen that Smithers had given him 

resting on his desk. On impulse, he slipped it inside his pocket. He knew that Tom 

Harris would get a kick out of seeing it. 

He hurried back downstairs and out through the hall, calling out a last “Good-bye!” 

as he went. 

“Don‟t forget your scarf!” Jack called back. 

She was too late. It was cold outside but dry, and there was no wind. Alex hoisted 

his knapsack over his shoulder and made his way along the backstreets that would 

lead him to the King‟s Road. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

  

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

This part of Chelsea was full of elegant townhouses standing side by side with 

expensive cars parked outside. In a few months, the trees would blossom and the 

wisteria would tumble down the brickwork. Ian Rider had liked being here because 

it was quiet and private and yet still in the middle of the city. He‟d always had a 

hatred of the suburbs. “A nice place for children and vets.” Alex could still hear his 

slightly cryptic remark. 

There was a FedEx van at the end of the street, badly parked across the corner, 

and two men dressed in overalls examining a clipboard that they held between 

them. They were obviously lost, and as Alex approached, one of them came over to 

him. 

“Excuse me, mate,” he said. “We‟ve got a delivery for Packard Street. You wouldn‟t 

know where it is, would you?” 

Alex shook his head. “There‟s no Packard Street around here.” 

“Are you sure? That‟s what it says here.” The man held out the clipboard, inviting 

Alex to take a look. 

It was the empty van that alerted him. 

The doors of the van were open, and if they were making a delivery to an address 

in Chelsea, why was there nothing inside? 

Alex jerked back, but it was already too late. The two men had maneuvered Alex 

between them so that they were perfectly placed, one of them in front of him, one 

of them behind. He heard the clipboard hit the sidewalk. It was just a prop. They 

didn‟t need it anymore. 

One of the men grabbed him by the throat. Alex twisted around, trying to break 

free. At the same time, he saw something that sent a chill up his spine. The second 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

deliveryman had produced a hypodermic syringe. They weren‟t here to kill him. 

They were here to take him. The van was for him. 

Alex put everything he had been taught into action. He knew that it would be 

almost impossible even for two grown men to drag him into the van . . . unless they 

made contact with the needle. That was what he had to avoid. So he didn‟t waste 

any energy trying to break free of the neck lock. It was too strong anyway. 

Instead, he used the man‟s own strength against him, levering himself back, raising 

both legs off the ground and lashing out. The man with the syringe had been 

looking for somewhere to plant it, and with a smile of satisfaction, Alex saw the 

soles of his shoes smash into it, breaking it against the man‟s chest. If they‟d been 

planning to knock him out, they could forget it. Now it would be twice as hard to 

make him disappear. 

So far, no more than about ten seconds had passed since the attack had begun, and 

Alex knew that time was on his side. The streets of Chelsea might be quiet, but it 

was eight thirty in the morning and people would be on their way to work. He 

couldn‟t call for help. He was still being strangled. But someone would see what was 

happening. They had to. 

Sure enough, a figure turned the corner and Alex was overjoyed to see the blue-

and-silver uniform of a policeman. Alex felt the man behind him loosen his grip as 

the policeman ran forward, and he gratefully sucked in air. 

“What‟s going on here?” the policeman demanded. 

“They . . . ,” Alex began, and stopped as he felt something stab him in the back, 

just above his waist. A second needle! The man who had been holding him must have 

taken it out of his pocket. But surely . . . 

The policeman wasn‟t doing anything, and even as the strength drained out of him 

and his legs buckled, Alex understood. The policeman wasn‟t any more real than the 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

deliverymen had been. They were all in it together. Alex had been tricked and 

there was nothing he could do as whatever drug had been pumped into him coursed 

through his system. He saw the street tilt and then turn sideways and knew that 

the only reason he wasn‟t lying flat on the sidewalk was because the deliverymen 

had caught him and were carrying him into the van. 

He was angry with himself. Only a few minutes ago, Jack had been accusing him. He 

could have died at Elm‟s Cross and she would have never known what had happened 

to him. He had promised her it would never happen again. And yet it already had. In 

a few hours, the school would report him missing. She would think he had betrayed 

her again. If he died, he would never be able to tell her the truth. 

This was all his fault. He shouldn‟t have gone to the film studio. He should never 

have gotten involved with Desmond McCain in the first place. He wished he could 

call Jack and tell her. But it was too late. Barely conscious, already unable to 

struggle, he was bundled into the back of the van. He didn‟t even hear the doors 

slam shut. 

  

Alex opened his eyes. 

Someone was doing something to his head. A lock of light brown hair twisted, 

falling in front of his eyes. At the same time he heard the snip of scissors. He was 

sitting in a chair in what looked like a hotel room. They hadn‟t tied him up, but they 

didn‟t need to. He was still drugged and couldn‟t move. He‟d been taken out of his 

school uniform and dressed in an ill-fitting tracksuit. They were cutting his hair. 

The two deliverymen were standing over him. There was a window covered by a 

blind and, at the very corner of his vision, an unmade bed. No carpet. His feet 

seemed to be resting on some sort of metal shelf, but he didn‟t have the strength 

to look down. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The two men were talking, their voices like distant echoes that he couldn‟t make 

out. One of them noticed he was awake and grabbed his head, squeezing his cheeks 

between thumb and fingers. More of his hair tumbled down into his lap. He could 

feel the cold air touching his scalp. 

“He‟s back,” the man said. 

“Good.” 

A woman appeared from nowhere—she must have been standing behind him—and 

Alex recognized Myra Beckett, the supervisor of Greenfields. Bizarrely, she was 

dressed as a nurse, complete with a starched white hat. The diagonal fringe of 

dark hair looked more severe than ever, as if it had been sliced with a single sword 

stroke. Her eyes, behind the round, gold glasses, were slightly crazy. Alex‟s mouth 

was dry and he was feeling sick, but he managed to swear at her, a single venomous 

word. 

“We‟ll do it now,” she said. 

They took hold of his arm and rolled up his sleeve. Alex winced as they gave him 

another injection, a long needle sliding into the flesh just above his wrist. But this 

time they didn‟t remove it. Beckett taped it in place and Alex saw there was a tube 

connecting it to a plastic box about the size of a cigarette packet, which they 

taped to his arm. 

“This IV will continue to give you a timed injection of the drugs we are using over 

the next few hours,” Beckett explained. “You will not be able to move or to speak. 

There will be other side effects. Try to breathe normally.” 

Alex felt a wave of a nausea. He was completely helpless. And whatever these 

people were planning, it wasn‟t going to end in this room. 

The men rolled back his sleeve, hiding the plastic box. Alex knew that it was 

pumping its venom, drip by drip, into his bloodstream. He tried to jerk his arm but 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

he had no strength at all. He swore at Beckett a second time, but his voice was no 

longer working and all that came out was an inarticulate grunt. 

Beckett leaned over him and pressed a pair of glasses onto his face. Alex tried to 

shake them off, but they were tight-fitting, hooked over his ears. “You can take 

him out now,” she said. 

He was in a wheelchair! Alex didn‟t realize it until one of the men spun him around 

and pushed him out the door. They turned into a long corridor. “Wait a minute,” 

Beckett said. She stepped forward and crouched beside Alex so that her face was 

close to his. “What do you think?” she asked, with a thin smile. 

There was a full-length mirror at the end of the corridor. Alex stared at himself in 

shock and disbelief. His hair had been cut so hideously that he looked two years 

older than his true age and completely pitiful. The tracksuit was the color of a 

nasty bruise. It was one size too big and it was covered in stains, as if he was 

unable to feed himself. His skin was pale and unhealthy. The glasses he had been 

given were deliberately ugly; black plastic with thick lenses. They hung slightly 

crooked on his face. 

The drugs had attacked his muscles, paralyzing him and somehow changing the 

shape of his entire body. His jaw hung open and his eyes were glazed. Alex knew 

exactly what they had done. They had turned him into a foul parady of a disabled 

person. They had made him look brain-damaged . . . but worse than that, they had 

removed his dignity too. In a way, it was a brilliant disguise. People might glance at 

him in the street, but they would be too embarrassed to look twice. Beckett was 

taking their prejudices and using them to her own advantage. 

Beckett must have given a signal. Alex was taken down the corridor and around to 

an elevator. After that, the extra drugs must have kicked in, because his world 

seemed to skip and jump. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He had the foggy sensation of being on the street and wheeled into the van. 

He was in the van. 

He was at Heathrow Airport! Hadn‟t he been here just a few weeks ago with Sabina 

and her parents? The terminal lights hurt his eyes and he saw people staring 

briefly at him, then turning away, ashamed of themselves. He tried to call out for 

help, but the low, pathetic mumbling that came out of his lips only added to the 

impression that he was handicapped. They had no idea what was going on. They 

wouldn‟t even begin to guess that he was being kidnapped, spirited away in front of 

their eyes. 

Passport control. They had provided Alex with fake documents, of course, but it 

seemed to him that the official didn‟t look too closely. A boy in a wheelchair 

accompanied by a nurse. The two men had stayed behind. 

“Jonathan loves flying on big airplanes. Don‟t you, Jonathan!” Beckett was talking to 

him, addressing him as if he were six years old. 

I‟m not . . . Alex wanted to tell the passport officer his real name. But nothing 

resembling a word came out. 

And now he was in some sort of lounge. 

Now being wheeled down a corridor. 

On the plane. A seat had been taken out to make room for the wheelchair. Other 

passengers were passing him, carrying their luggage. He saw them glance in his 

direction. Each time the reaction was the same. Puzzlement, the realization that 

something was wrong, then pity, and finally a sense of embarrassment. The drug 

was making his knee twitch. His hand, resting on the knee, was doing the same. 

“Try to get some sleep, Jonathan,” Beckett said. “It‟s a long flight.” 

Where were they taking him? And why? Did they really think they could get away 

with this, whisking him out of the country with a fake ID? Jack would already know 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

he was missing. The school would have called her and she would have alerted MI6. 

They would be looking for him. Every airport would be watched. 

Except . . . 

What day was this? He could have been kept drugged for a few hours or a week. Or 

a month. Alex had no control over his body, but they had left his mind intact . . . 

hadn‟t they? 

He was alert enough to realize it wasn‟t completely hopeless. Everything led back 

to Desmond McCain. MI6 knew what had happened at Greenfields. Jack would tell 

them about Elm‟s Cross. They would track down McCain and that would lead them to 

him. 

They were in the air. How was that possible? Alex couldn‟t remember taking off. 

How long had they been flying? He tried to work out where they might be going. It 

had been light when they were on the runway, and it was still light now. If they had 

been in the air for a while, that would suggest, at the very least, that they weren‟t 

heading east. The different time zones would have brought the night in faster. 

South, then, or west? He couldn‟t turn his head—the muscles in his neck refused to 

work—but as they had filed past, he had noticed that many of the other 

passengers were black, dressed in clothes that were too brightly colored for the 

UK. They could be going home. 

Africa. 

Food was served—but not to him. The stewardess smiled at him sadly, as if 

understanding that he couldn‟t feed himself. Beckett brought out some baby food 

and tried to force it into his mouth with a spoon. Using all his remaining strength, 

Alex kept his mouth shut. He wasn‟t going to be humiliated by her any more than he 

had been already. 

Hours passed, yet Alex hardly was aware of it. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

They were on the ground. 

The doors were open. 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

And then Alex was being wheeled through an arrivals hall, and a poster on the wall 

answered the question he had been asking himself for the past how-many hours. A 

brightly dressed black woman with a huge smile, holding a basket of fruit. And a 

caption. 

  

SMILE! YOU’RE IN KENYA. 

  

Kenya! Vaguely, Alex remembered something that Edward Pleasure had told him. 

“He‟s the part owner of a safari camp somewhere in Kenya.” The words might have 

been spoken a century ago and on a different planet. Had he really once been in 

Kilmore Castle, dancing with Sabina? What would she say if she could see him now? 

The plastic box was still resting against his arm, and he actually felt the whole 

thing vibrate as the timing mechanism clicked in, sending another spurt of the 

liquid into his veins. He felt unconsciousness returning and didn‟t even try to fight 

it. He was on his own, thousands of miles from home. He had fallen into the hands 

of a ruthless enemy and nobody knew where he was. Ahead of him, a set of 

automatic doors swung open. Alex was wheeled into the dark. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

17 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

A SHORT FLIGHT TO NOWHERE 

 

MOVEMENT RETURNED, one twitch at a time. 

Alex had no idea how long he had been here, but he guessed that it couldn‟t have 

been much more than twenty-four hours. He had watched the sun rise, not out of 

the window but through the cloth that made up the wall. He was lying on his back 

on a comfortable bed in what seemed to be a cross between a luxury hotel room 

and a large tent. The floor was made of polished wood. There was an expensive-

looking wardrobe, a carved wooden table, and two chairs. A fan hung from the 

ceiling above his head, turning continuously. He was completely enclosed by a 

mosquito net that rippled in the breeze. But the walls were made of canvas. The 

windows consisted of two flaps, fastened from the outside. 

Where exactly was he? From the sounds that surrounded him—the chatter of 

monkeys, the occasional bellow of an elephant, the constant whoops and screams of 

exotic birds—it seemed that he was in the bush, somewhere in the middle of Kenya. 

That tied in with his memories of the journey here, even if they were still 

confused. There had been the poster he had seen. SMILE! YOU‟RE IN KENYA. As 

if he had felt remotely like smiling! They had gone through passport control, and 

after that the drug must have kicked in again. They had driven across a city, but 

he had barely seen any of it. It had been late evening. Nairobi? And then there had 

been a second, smaller airport and another plane, this one a four-seater with 

propellers. They had bundled him in, leaving the wheelchair behind. And then . . . 

He had woken up here, on his own. It was dark . . . evening or night. But they had 

left two little battery lights on—battery, not electric. At least he could see, even 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

if he couldn‟t yet move. The plastic box had been removed from his arm and a dirty 

bandage stuck over the puncture where the needle had gone in. That had been the 

first thing he had noticed—and he‟d been grateful for it. With the drug no longer 

pumping into his system, he had begun to recover. He could lift his hand. He could 

turn his head from side to side, taking in the sweep of the room. Eventually he had 

stood up and tottered on unsteady legs into the bathroom, behind the bed, 

separated by a screen. He had thrown up and that made him feel better. Then he 

had taken a cold shower, the water washing away some of the horror of the past 

day. 

He had still been too weak to make his way outside. He had decided he would wait 

for the sun. Once again he had fallen asleep, but this time more normally. 

And now it was morning. Alex rolled off the bed and stood up. He had slept in his 

shorts. The tracksuit that they had dressed him in was lying on the floor, a 

crumpled heap. He noticed that his school uniform had been brought over from 

England. It seemed somehow strange to see it, but of course he had been wearing 

it when he was kidnapped. He went over to it, feeling in the inside pocket of his 

jacket. 

Yes. It was there. He had been carrying the black gel-ink pen that Smithers had 

given him and nobody had thought to remove it. It wasn‟t as powerful as the device 

that had brought down the factory chimney, but it might still be useful. At the 

very least, it gave Alex hope. McCain had made his first mistake. 

He was now moving completely normally. They had used a powerful drug on him, but 

it had left his system completely. Just to be sure, he forced himself to do twenty 

push-ups, then had another shower. He got dressed in his own pants and shirt, 

leaving off the jacket. Although it was early morning, it was already warm. He could 

feel the sun beating through the walls of the tent and the fan was having to fight 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

against the sluggish air. He slipped the gel-ink pen into his pants pocket. From now 

on, he would make sure it never left him. 

The front of the tent was sealed up. There was a large flap with a zipper running 

around the side. Well, if this was his prison, it was a very flimsy one. Alex went 

over and unzipped it. At once he saw the green of the jungle, confirming what he 

had guessed. He was in the bush. But the way was blocked by a guard, a black man 

dressed in jeans and grimy shirt, a rifle strapped over his shoulder. Alex realized 

that he must have been there all night. 

The guard turned around and scowled. “You stay inside.” That seemed to be the 

limit of his English. 

“What time do you serve breakfast?” Alex asked. He had already decided. He 

wasn‟t going to let these people think he was scared. 

“Inside.” The guard brought the rifle around. 

Alex raised his hands and retreated. There was no point starting a fight. Not yet. 

Breakfast came half an hour later: tea, canned orange juice, and two slices of 

toast, carried in by a second guard. Alex wolfed it down. It had been a long time 

since he had last eaten and his stomach couldn‟t have been more empty. There was 

a bottle of water in the tent, and he drank that too. He had no idea what was going 

to happen to him. He would take any food or water he could get. 

Why had they brought him here? Alex almost admired McCain. The man must have 

nerves of steel, kidnapping him in broad daylight, smuggling him out of England 

through one of the world‟s busiest airports. But what was the point? McCain must 

have identified him as the intruder at Greenfields. He would have remembered 

their meeting at the castle in Scotland. Maybe he had decided to take revenge. 

After all, he had already tried to kill Alex once. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

And yet, somehow, Alex didn‟t believe it. Whatever McCain was planning, the stakes 

were too high. This wasn‟t personal. This was business. McCain needed Alex for a 

reason. 

And now Alex was completely in his power. It was probably best not to think too 

much about what might lie ahead. 

Instead, Alex thought about Jack. What would she be doing now? And what about 

MI6? Once they‟d realized he was gone, they‟d have spared no effort. Every 

intelligence agency in the world would be looking for him. Surely someone would 

remember a fourteen-year-old boy being taken through passport control, even if he 

was in a wheelchair. The trail would lead to Kenya and they must know that McCain 

had a base here. 

Except that McCain would have covered his tracks. He knew exactly what he was 

doing. Alex was going to have to rely on his own resources to get himself out of 

this mess. He would just have to wait for an opportunity and take it when it came. 

The tent flap suddenly opened and Myra Beckett stepped inside. She had changed 

once again, wearing a safari outfit—a loose shirt and long pants in different shades 

of brown. The clothes made her look more masculine than ever. She was carrying 

what looked like a leather cloth. 

She wasn‟t alone. A guard had come with her, but not the one he had seen earlier. 

This one had on dirty jeans and a black sleeveless T-shirt. Alex noticed the 

knotted muscles of his arms and the machete hanging from his belt. He had narrow, 

mean eyes. He was looking at Alex as if the two of them had been lifelong enemies. 

“I heard you were up,” Beckett said. “How are you feeling?” 

Alex wasn‟t sure what to say. Just seeing her made him feel sick again. “Never 

better,” he muttered. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“The serum that we injected you with was my own invention, and I‟m very pleased 

with the way it worked. It was derived from the water hemlock that we cultivate 

at Greenfields. The effect is not dissimilar to a snake bite, only far less 

permanent. Can I trust you to behave yourself? If not, we can always inject you 

with some more.” 

“What do you want with me?” Alex asked. 

“You‟ll find out in good time. For the moment, let me introduce you to Njenga.” She 

gestured at the guard. “He‟s a Kikuyu tribesman, as are all the guards here, and 

they will do anything we tell them. There are no other jobs, you see. You might like 

to know that the Kikuyus once fought against the British with a ferocity that made 

them a source of great terror. One of their tricks was to impale their victims with 

a spear up their backside, then leave them to die slowly on the side of a hill. I 

mention this only as a warning not to annoy them.” 

“Nice to meet you, Njenga,” Alex said. 

Njenga‟s scowl deepened. 

“Where‟s McCain?” Alex demanded. 

“The Reverend McCain won‟t be here until later today. It is very likely that your 

friends in MI6 are watching him, so he had to take a more roundabout route. But 

he‟s hoping to have dinner with you this evening. In the meantime, I thought you 

might like to come with me.” 

“Where are we going?” 

“Oh—nowhere in particular.” Beckett smiled, her lips barely moving. “A short flight 

to nowhere.” She lifted the piece of leather and Alex saw that it was a flying cap. 

“You don‟t mind another plane?” 

“Do I have any choice?” 

“Not really. This way . . .” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

She led him out of the tent. 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He was in a safari camp. The tent where he had spent the night was one of a dozen, 

each one surrounded by a wooden veranda and built into the embrace of a wide 

river that swept around them. Alex looked at the silver water rippling past, with a 

tangled wall of green rising in a steep bank on the other side. This really was a 

beautiful spot. He heard chattering above him and looked up to see a family of gray 

monkeys leaping from the branches of a juniper tree, using their hands and tails. 

Some of the mothers had tiny babies clinging to their chests. 

“The monkeys are a nuisance,” Beckett muttered. She snapped out an order in 

another language and one of the guards standing beside the path lifted his rifle 

and fired. A dead monkey plunged out of the tree and crashed to the ground. The 

others scattered. “The guards are equally accurate with guns and spears,” she went 

on. “They keep the population down.” 

“What is this place?” Alex asked. He was careful not to react to what he had just 

seen. He knew it had been done for his benefit. 

“This is the Simba River Camp, a business that belongs to Mr. McCain. I take it you 

know which country you‟re in?” 

“Kenya.” 

“That‟s right.” Another hint of a smile. It was as if she had forgotten how to do 

the real thing. “We‟re on the edge of the Rift Valley. Simba River Camp was once a 

world-class safari lodge with visitors from America, Europe, and Japan. Brad Pitt 

once stayed here. Unfortunately, it became a victim of the global recession. The 

visitors stopped coming and the business went bust.” 

Looking around, Alex could see it for himself. His was the only tent that had been 

occupied. The others were empty and falling into disrepair. The path that they 

were following had been neglected, with weeds and wild grass breaking through. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

They passed a swimming pool, but it had no water and the cement was cracked. All 

around, the vegetation was tumbling over itself, out of control. If the camp was 

left to itself for much longer, it would be swallowed up, disappearing into the bush, 

and nobody would know that it had ever existed. 

They came to a beaten-up Land Rover with dirty windows and wires tumbling out of 

the dashboard. Njenga climbed into the driving seat with Beckett next to him. Alex 

went in the back. He was moving completely normally now and he was glad of it. 

Even on this short journey, he might get a chance to break away. 

“It‟s seventy miles to the next camp, and I doubt that you‟d ever find it,” Beckett 

said. She must have seen what he was thinking. “So please don‟t entertain any 

foolish ideas. The Kikuyus are also excellent trackers. They would be able to follow 

your trail in the darkness, even in the pouring rain. I‟m afraid Njenga would enjoy 

hacking you to pieces. That‟s the sort of person he is. If I were you, I wouldn‟t give 

him the opportunity.” 

They rumbled along a dirt track for a couple of minutes, passing through a wire 

fence with a rusting gateway and leaving the camp behind them. Almost at once 

they came to an airstrip—a dusty orange runway that had somehow been cut 

through the long grass. A dilapidated wooden hut stood to one side, with a wind 

sock hanging limply from a pole. This must have been where Alex landed when he 

was brought to Simba River Camp, although he had no memory of it. 

There was a plane parked on the grass next to a line of about thirty oil drums. Alex 

had never seen anything quite like it. It was like an oversized toy with two seats, 

one behind the other, three wheels, and a single propeller at the front. It had no 

cabin or cockpit. A slanting window would protect the pilot, but any passenger 

would be sitting outside, feeling the full force of the air currents. A single wing, on 

struts, stretched out from left to right, and Alex saw a series of rubber tubes 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

running all the way to the tips. These were connected to two plastic drums lashed 

to the side of the plane just behind the passenger seat. 

It was a crop duster, but a very old one. It should have been in a museum. Alex 

wondered if it could really fly. 

“This is the Piper J-3 Cub,” Beckett told him. She had taken off her glasses and 

was putting on the flying cap, fastening it under her chin. She was also wearing a 

leather jacket, which she had brought from the Land Rover. Alex noticed that she 

wasn‟t offering him anything to keep him warm. “Twenty-two feet long. Sixty-five 

horsepower engine. They used them for training during the war. Please, get in.” 

Njenga stood near the car. Alex was feeling increasingly uneasy, but he did as he 

was told. There was a metal lever between the seats connected to a control box, 

with two sets of wires running toward the wings. When he sat down, it was right in 

front of him. There was almost no room for his feet. Myra Beckett got into the 

front and made a few checks. She produced a pair of goggles and slipped them over 

her eyes. Then she flicked a switch and the propeller began to turn. 

It took a full minute to blur and then come up to speed. Alex could feel the high-

pitched buzz of the engine and knew that from this point on there would be no 

more conversation. That suited him. He had nothing to say to the woman. 

Njenga moved forward and pulled the chocks from under the wheels. Alex clicked 

on his seat belt. The Piper rolled forward. 

They taxied to the end of the runway, bumping up and down on the uneven surface. 

At least Beckett seemed to be an experienced pilot. She spun the plane around, 

then raced back again, the engine straining like an overworked lawnmower. Alex 

wondered if they had enough speed to get into the air, but after one last bump 

they were up, with the wind rushing past and the ground sweeping away below. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Alex looked back. He could see Njenga standing on his own beside the car and 

behind him, separated by a line of brush, Simba River Camp, with the water now a 

silver ribbon twisting around it. The far bank rose steeply, then sloped down again, 

opening onto a great savannah that fanned out to the horizon. He saw a herd of 

antelope, startled by the sound of the engine, racing across the plain as if it were a 

bed of hot coals, their feet barely touching the grass. In any other circumstances, 

it would have been a beautiful sight. The flat African landscape, with its burned-

out yellows and browns, had a true majesty. The sun was shining. The sky was a 

brilliant blue. Just for a moment, he was able to forget the trouble he was in. 

Beckett had taken the Piper to a height of perhaps one thousand feet, at the same 

time tilting away from the river, heading north. Alex could see the compass on the 

control panel in front of her. He studied the landscape, holding up a hand to 

protect his eyes from the slice of the wind. They were flying over a sprawl of 

green, but there were hills ahead of them, gray and rocky, rising up to the east and 

west, then closing together to form an upside-down V. In the far distance, he made 

out what looked like a man-made wall, but it would have to be a very big one if he 

could see it from here. Over to one side, he noticed a track winding up into the 

hills, and an electricity pylon. Had Beckett been lying when she said there was no 

one around for seventy miles? There seemed to be signs of civilization much closer 

than that. 

They flew over a wheat field. The entire valley between the hills had been planted 

with the crop, which looked almost ready to harvest. Alex could see thousands of 

golden blades bending in the breeze. He wondered how it could possibly grow out 

here in this heat, and a moment later he got his answer. The wall he had seen was a 

dam built into the neck of the valley. The plane flew over it and suddenly they were 

above water, a huge lake stretching out to the mountain range on the far shore. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The water must somehow feed into the river. It would also be used to feed the 

crops. 

Beckett pulled on the joystick and the Piper Cub performed a tight circle, the 

whole continent tipping on its side. Alex felt his ears pop and he was glad he was 

belted in. For a few seconds he had almost been upside down, and in a plane like 

this it would be easy enough to tumble out. They were flying back exactly the same 

way they had come. For a second time, they passed over the lip of the dam. The 

wheat field lay ahead of them, less than half a mile away. 

For the first time, Beckett turned around and called out to him. Her eyes, behind 

the goggles, looked enormous. “When I tell you, I want you to pull the lever.” Alex 

could barely hear what she was saying. She repeated herself, stressing each word. 

He nodded. 

Pull the lever? What was this all about? Alex wondered if he might be about to 

eject himself, if this hadn‟t all been some cruel and horrible trick. But he had no 

choice but to play along, and anyway, if he refused, it would be easy enough for her 

to reach back and do it herself. 

They swept in low over the wheat and Beckett signaled with one hand. Alex pulled 

the lever. At once, there was a gurgle. Alex felt the rubber pipes under his feet 

swell as liquid rushed through them, and seconds later a spray began to burst out 

from beneath the wings, spreading out in the air and falling evenly onto the crop. 

He wondered why he was even remotely surprised. The plane was a crop duster and 

that was what they were doing. Dusting the crops. 

They flew over the field four times before the liquid ran out. Alex could only sit 

there, watching the artificial rain, completely mystified. At last, Beckett turned 

around again. “Now we can go back!” she shouted. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

It took them just a few minutes to return to the runway. Njenga was still waiting 

for them, leaning against the Land Rover in the heat of the sun. Alex saw his head 

turn slowly as they approached. He had been smoking a cigarette. He dropped it 

and ground it out under his foot. 

They landed. The plane rattled back to the grass and came to a standstill. Myra 

Beckett flicked off the engine, then took off her goggles and helmet and climbed 

down. Alex followed her. He was glad to have his feet back on the ground. He stood 

there, waiting for her to explain herself. 

“Did you enjoy that?” she asked. 

“What was it all about?” Alex demanded. Suddenly he was angry. “Why don‟t you 

stop playing games with me? I don‟t know what you‟re doing, but you‟ve got no 

reason to keep me here. I want to see McCain. And I want to go home.” 

“Desmond will be here this evening and he will explain everything to you, including 

the purpose of our little flight today. But I‟m afraid I have to tell you there‟s no 

chance of your going home.” 

“Why not?” 

“Because we‟re going to kill you, you silly boy. Surely you must have realized that. 

But first we‟re going to hurt you. You see, there are things we need to know. I‟m 

afraid you do have a very unpleasant time ahead of you. If I were you, I‟d get as 

much rest as you can.” 

She untangled her eyeglasses and put them back on. Then, with a brief laugh, she 

walked back to the waiting car. 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

18 

 

WOLF MOON 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

ALEX HEARD DESMOND MCCAIN arrive later that afternoon. He came in a plane 

that was larger than the Piper, with a deeper, more solid-sounding engine. Alex 

didn‟t actually see it—he hadn‟t been allowed out of his tent since the flight with 

Myra Beckett—but he heard it land. 

He had been on his own all afternoon. Only once, a Kikuyu guard had come in 

carrying a meager lunch on a tray: fruit, bread, and water. He refused to think 

about what the Beckett woman had told him. He had been threatened before and 

he knew that part of her plan was to weaken him psychologically, to sap his resolve. 

Instead, he used the time to collect his thoughts. He presumed the crop duster 

had been carrying the liquid that had been developed at Greenfields. But what was 

the point of spraying a single field in Kenya, and why had Beckett made such a big 

deal of it? Alex tried to connect the dots. An international charity, a dead African 

village mocked up in a film studio, his own kidnapping, the wheat field. The more he 

thought about it, the more unsettled he became, and in the end he pushed it out of 

his mind and dozed off. He would let McCain explain himself when the time came. 

But the sun had set and darkness fallen before Beckett returned to the tent. 

“The Reverend McCain would like you to join him for dinner,” she announced. 

“That‟s very kind of him.” Alex swung himself off the bed. “I hope it‟s better than 

the lunch.” 

Once again, they left the tent. 

Simba River Camp looked better at night than it had in the day. There was a full 

moon and the pale light softened everything and made the river sparkle. There 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

were a few lights burning in the camp, but they were hardly needed when the sky 

was so full of stars. The air smelled of perfume. Cicadas were already at work, 

grinding away in the shadows. 

Alex followed the woman to what was clearly the center of the camp, a circular 

clearing with the river on one side and acacia trees on all the others, the wide 

branches stretching out as if to form a protective screen. Two wooden buildings 

stood opposite each other. One was a welcome center and administrative office. 

The other combined a bar, lounge, and restaurant. It had a thatched roof that was 

much too big for it, almost thrown over it like pastry on a pie. There were no 

windows or doors . . . in fact, no walls. Alex could imagine the guests meeting here 

for iced gin and tonics after their long day spotting wild game . . . except the 

tables were piled up in the corner and the bar was closed. 

He noticed a satellite dish mounted on the roof of the first building and realized 

there must be a radio somewhere inside. Might it be possible to send out a 

message? He doubted it. There were yet more guards patrolling the area—there 

must have been a dozen of them altogether—these ones armed with spears, which 

they carried as if they‟d had them from the day they were born. Guns and spears. 

It seemed a strange combination in the twenty-first century, but Alex guessed 

that in the hands of the Kikuyu tribesmen, one would be just as dangerous as the 

other. 

“Over here, Alex.” 

There was a raised platform close to the river with a bonfire burning low to one 

side. The embers were glowing bright red and the smell of charcoal crept into the 

air. A table and chairs had been laid out on the platform with two white china 

plates, two crystal wine glasses, but only one set of silver knives and forks. 

“You‟re not joining us?” Alex asked. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Beckett added a couple of branches to the fire. “Mr. McCain has asked to eat with 

you alone.” 

“Well, you can do the washing up.” 

“Still making jokes? We‟ll see if you find this all so amusing tomorrow.” 

She spun around and left him. It occurred to Alex that she might be annoyed that 

she hadn‟t been invited. He still hadn‟t worked out what her part in all this might 

be. She was a scientist, after all. What had persuaded her to throw in her lot with 

Desmond McCain? 

Alex sat down. A bottle of French wine, already opened, stood next to a jug of 

water. He helped himself to the water. His eye fell on one of the knives. It looked 

sharp, with a serrated edge. Would anyone notice if it was missing? He glanced 

around, then slid it off the table and into the waistband of his pants. He felt the 

blade against his skin, strangely comforting. He would use his bread knife when it 

was time to eat. 

He glanced over at the river, wondering what animals might gather there in the 

night. There was no fence, no barrier between them and the camp. He had seen 

monkeys and antelope. Might there be lions too? Despite everything, he had to 

admit that this was a memorable place, with the river sweeping around, the fire 

blazing, the African bush with all its secrets. He looked up at the night sky, packed 

with so many stars that even in the vastness of the universe they seemed to be 

fighting for space. And there, right in the middle of them, huge and pale . . . 

“They call it the Wolf Moon.” 

The voice came out of the shadows. Desmond McCain had appeared from nowhere, 

walking up to the table in no particular hurry. Alex wondered how long he had been 

standing there, watching him. McCain was dressed in a gray silk suit, black polished 

shoes, and a black T-shirt. He was carrying a laptop computer that seemed to 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

weigh nothing in his hand. His face gave nothing away. He sat at the table and laid 

the computer down. Then he unfolded his napkin and looked at Alex as if noticing 

him for the first time. 

“American Indians call it that,” he went on. “But I have heard the name used here 

too. It is also known as the Hunger Moon, which is strangely appropriate. I have 

been waiting for it. The moon is important to my plans.” 

“There‟s a name for people with an interest in the moon,” Alex said. “They‟re called 

lunatics.” 

McCain laughed briefly but without making any sound. “The late Harold Bulman told 

me a great deal about you,” he said. “I was impressed by what I heard, but I have 

to say I am even more impressed now. Any other boy who had been through what 

you have been through would be a sniveling wreck. Far away from home. 

Transported in a manner that could not have been agreeable. And you‟re still brave 

enough to trade insults with me. At first I was disinclined to believe that the 

British intelligence services would have recruited a fourteen-year-old child. But 

I‟m already beginning to see why they chose you.” 

“Bulman is dead?” Alex wasn‟t sure what else to say. 

“Yes. He told me what I wanted to know and then I killed him. I enjoyed doing so. 

If you have learned anything about me, Alex, it won‟t surprise you that I have a 

strong dislike of journalists.” McCain picked up the bottle. “Will you have some 

wine?” 

“I‟ll stick to water.” 

“I‟m glad to hear it. You‟re too young to drink.” McCain poured himself a glass of 

the wine. Alex saw the swirl of red against the side of the glass. “Did you have a 

good day?” he asked. “Did Myra look after you?” 

“She took me for a ride in the crop duster.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Do you know that she taught herself to fly? She never had a single lesson. She 

merely had a complete understanding of the laws of physics and worked it all out. 

She is a remarkable woman. When this is over, she and I plan to get married.” 

“You must let me know what to buy you.” 

“I doubt that you‟ll be invited, Alex.” McCain still hadn‟t drunk any of the wine. He 

was gazing into the glass as if he could see his future in it. “The meal will be 

brought over very shortly. Have you ever eaten ostrich?” 

“They don‟t serve it in the school cafeteria . . . at least not that I‟m aware of.” 

“The meat can be quite tough, and you will need a sharp knife to cut it. I notice 

that your knife is missing. Can I suggest you return it to the table?” 

Alex hesitated. But there was no point denying it. He took out the knife and placed 

it in front of him. 

“What were you going to do with it?” McCain asked. 

“I just thought it might come in useful.” 

“Were you planning to attack me?” 

“No. But that‟s a good idea.” 

“I don‟t think so.” He raised a hand and almost at once something whipped past 

Alex‟s head and buried itself in a tree. It was a spear. Alex saw it quivering in the 

trunk. He hadn‟t even seen who‟d thrown it. “You can see that it would be a great 

mistake to try anything unwise,” McCain continued, as if nothing had happened. “I 

hope I have made myself clear.” 

“I think I get the point,” Alex said. 

“Excellent.” 

“Are you going to tell me why I‟m here?” 

“All in good time.” McCain turned his head and for a moment the flames were 

reflected in his silver crucifix. It was as if there were a fire burning on the side of 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

his face. “I am sure you will have worked out that I risked everything bringing you 

here. Your disappearance has already been reported on the English news and the 

police forces of the world are united in the search for you. But I am also playing 

for an enormous prize, Alex. It is a little bit like that poker game that first 

brought us together. All gamblers know that the greater the reward, the greater 

the risks.” 

“I suppose you want to take over the world,” Alex said. 

“Nothing as tiresome as that. World domination has never seemed particularly 

attractive to me.” He glanced up. “But it seems that dinner is about to be served. 

We can talk further as we eat.” 

Two guards had appeared, carrying the dinner. They laid the food down on the 

table and disappeared. Alex had been served a barbecued meat, sweet potatoes, 

and beans. McCain had a bowl of brown sludge. 

“We have the same food,” McCain explained. “Unfortunately, I am no longer able to 

chew.” He took a small silver straw out of his top pocket. “My meal has been 

liquified.” 

“Your boxing injury,” Alex said. 

“It wasn‟t so much the injury as the operation that I underwent afterward. My 

manager decided to send me to a plastic surgeon in Las Vegas. I should have known 

it would be a botch job. His clinic was above a casino. I take it you are familiar with 

my past?” 

“You were knocked out by someone called Buddy Sangster when you were eighteen.” 

“It happened at Madison Square Garden in New York, two minutes into the 

middleweight championship. Sangster destroyed not only my hopes of becoming 

world champion, but my career. Then the surgeon made it difficult for me to speak 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

and impossible to eat. Since then, I have only taken liquids, and every time I sit 

down for a meal, I remember him. But I had my revenge.” 

Alex remembered what Edward Pleasure had told him. A year later, Buddy 

Sangster had fallen under a train. “You killed him,” he said. 

“Actually, I paid to have him killed. An international assassin known as the 

Gentleman did the job for me. He also took care of the plastic surgeon. It was very 

expensive and, in truth, I would have preferred to have done it myself. But it was 

too dangerous. As you will learn, Alex, I am a man who takes infinite care.” 

Alex wasn‟t hungry, but he forced himself to eat the food. He would need all his 

energy for what was to come. He tried a mouthful of the ostrich. It was 

surprisingly good, a bit like beef but with a gamier flavor. He would just have to do 

his best not to picture the animal while he ate. Meanwhile, McCain had leaned down 

and was busily sucking. His own brown porridge entered his mouth with a brief 

slurping sound. 

“I am going to tell you a little about myself,” McCain went on. “This is the third 

time you and I have encountered each other, Alex. We are enemies now and 

tomorrow, I‟m afraid, we are going to have no time for idle chat. But I am a 

civilized man. You are a child. Tonight, under the Wolf Moon, we can behave as if 

we are friends. And I welcome the opportunity to tell my story. I‟ve often been 

quite tempted to write a book.” 

“You could have the launch party back in jail.” 

“I would certainly be arrested if I were to make public what I‟m about to tell you—

but there is no chance of that happening.” 

McCain put down his straw and dabbed at his lips with his napkin. His mouth was 

slanting the wrong way, as if it had been further dislodged by the food. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I began my life with nothing,” he said. “You have to remember that. I had no 

parents, no family, no history, no friends, no anything. The people who fostered me 

in east London were kind enough in their own way. But did they care who or what I 

was? I was just one of many orphans that they took in. They were do-gooders. This 

was my first lesson in life. Do-gooders need victims. They need suffering. 

Otherwise they cannot do good. 

“I grew up in poverty. I went to a tough school, and from the very first day, the 

other children were very cruel to me. I can assure you that it is not a good start in 

life to be named after a bag of frozen food. I was bullied unmercifully. My color, 

of course, was against me. If you had ever been a victim of racism, Alex, you would 

know that it goes to the very heart of who you are. It destroys you. 

“I soon came to understand that only one thing would keep me safe and separate 

me from the herd. Only one thing would make a difference. Money! If I was rich, 

people wouldn‟t care where I came from. They wouldn‟t tease or torment me. They 

would respect me. That is the way modern life works, Alex. Look at self-satisfied 

pop singers or greasy, semi-literate athletes. People worship them. Why?” 

“Because they‟re talented.” 

“Because they have money!” McCain almost shouted the words. His voice echoed 

across the clearing and a couple of the guards turned toward him, checking that 

everything was all right. “Money is the god of the twenty-first century,” he 

continued, more quietly. “It divides us and defines us. But it is no longer enough to 

have enough. You have to have more than enough. Look at the bankers with their 

salaries and their pensions and their bonuses and their extras. Why have one house 

when you can have ten? Why wait in line when you can have your own private jet? 

From the age of about thirteen, I realized that was what I wanted. And very soon, 

that is what I shall have.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He had forgotten his food. He still hadn‟t tasted the wine, but he held it in front 

of him, admiring the deep color, balancing the glass in the palm of his hand as if 

afraid of smashing it. Once again, Alex was aware of the power of the man. He 

could picture the huge muscles writhing underneath the silk suit. 

“I had little education,” McCain went on. “The other children in my class saw to 

that. I had no prospects. I was, however, strong and fast on my feet. I became a 

boxer, which has seen more than one working-class boy rise to riches and success. 

And for a time, it looked as if the same might happen to me. I was known as a rising 

star. I trained in a gym in Limehouse and I threw myself into it. Sometimes I would 

go there for ten hours a day. This was in many respects the happiest time of my 

life. I loved the feel of my fist smashing into an opponent‟s face. I loved the sight 

of blood. And the feeling of victory! Once I knocked a man out. I thought for a 

moment I had killed him. It was a truly delicious sensation. 

“But, as I have explained to you, my dream came to an end. My manager dropped 

me. The press, which had once fawned over me, forgot me. I returned to London 

with no money and no job. I had to move back in with my foster parents, but they 

didn‟t really want me. I was no longer a cute little boy that they could feel good 

about helping. I was a man. There was no room for me in their life. 

“My foster father managed to get me a job with a real estate developer, and that 

was how I found myself in the lucrative world of property. It was an area in which 

I had almost immediate success. At that time, it was easy to make a fast profit 

and I began to do well. People noticed me. You could not be a successful black 

person in Britain without standing out, and as I moved up the ladder, more and 

more businessmen wanted to be seen with me, to pretend that they were my 

friends. People liked inviting me to dinner parties. They thought of me as a bit of a 

character—particularly after my brief fame in the boxing ring. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I made a large donation to the Conservative party, and as a result I was asked if I 

would like to become a prospective member of Parliament. I accepted and I was 

duly voted in, even though the seat had been Labour for as long as anyone could 

remember. Success followed success, Alex. I became a junior minister in the 

department of sport. I would often find myself on the terrace outside the House 

of Commons, sipping champagne with the prime minister. The entire cabinet came 

to my Christmas parties, which became famous for their fine vintage wine and 

chicken pies. I gave talks all over the country. And, thanks to my property empire, 

I was getting richer than ever. I still remember buying my first Rolls-Royce. At 

the time, I couldn‟t even drive—but what did I care? The next day I went out and 

hired a chauffeur. By the time I was thirty, I had a dozen people working for me.” 

He spread his hands. “And then it all went wrong again.” 

“You were sent to prison for fraud.” Alex remembered what Sabina‟s father had 

said. 

“Yes. Isn‟t it amazing how quickly people desert you? Without a moment‟s 

hesitation, my so-called friends turned their backs on me. I was thrown out of 

Parliament. All my wealth was taken from me. Journalists in the main newspapers 

jeered and mocked me in a way that was every bit as bad as the boys I had once 

known at school. In prison, I was beaten up so often that the hospital reserved a 

bed for me. Other men would have chosen to end it all, Alex—and there were times 

when even I considered dashing my head against a concrete wall. But I didn‟t—

because already I was planning my comeback. I knew that I could use my disgrace 

as just one more step on the journey I had been born to make.” 

“You didn‟t convert to Christianity,” Alex said. “You just pretended.” 

McCain laughed. “Of course! I read the Bible. I spent hours talking to the prison 

chaplain, a pompous fool who couldn‟t see farther than the end of his own dog 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

collar. I took a course on the Internet and got myself ordained. The Reverend 

Desmond McCain! It was all lies . . . but it was necessary. Because I had worked out 

what I was going to do next. I was going to be rich again. Fifty times richer than I 

had ever been before.” 

Alex had left most of his food. One of the guards came over and took the plates 

away, removing McCain‟s unfinished food. Another brought over a basket of fruit. 

In the brief silence, Alex listened to the sounds of the night: the soft murmur of 

the river as it flowed past, the endless whisper of the undergrowth, the occasional 

cry of some animal far away. He was sitting in the open air, in Africa! And yet he 

couldn‟t enjoy his surroundings. He was sitting at a table with a madman. He knew it 

all too well. McCain might have suffered hardships in his life, but what had 

happened to him had nothing to do with his background or his color; they were 

convenient excuses now. He had been a psychopath from the start. 

“Charity,” McCain said. “A very wise man once defined charity in the following way. 

He said it was poor people in rich countries giving money to rich people in poor 

countries.” He smiled at the thought. “Well, I have been thinking a lot about 

charity, Alex—and in particular how to use it for my own ends.” For a moment he 

looked up at the night sky, his eyes fixed on the full moon. “And in less than 

twenty-four hours, my moment will come. The seeds have already been sown . . . and 

I mean that quite literally.” 

“I know what you‟re doing,” Alex interrupted. “You‟re faking some sort of disaster. 

You‟re going to steal the money for yourself.” 

“Oh—no, no, no,” McCain replied. He lowered his head and gazed at Alex. “The 

disaster is going to be quite real. It‟s going to happen here in Kenya and very soon. 

Thousands of people are going to die, I‟m afraid. Men, women, and children. And let 

me tell you something rather disturbing. I really want you to know this. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I can see the way you‟re looking at me, Alex. The contempt in your eyes. I‟m used 

to it. I‟ve had it all my life. But when the dying begins—and it will be very soon—

just remember. It wasn‟t me who started it.” 

He paused. And somehow Alex knew what he was going to say next. 

“It was you.” 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

19 

 

ALL FOR CHARITY 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

THE GUARDS HAD SERVED COFFEE and McCain had lit a cigarette. Watching the 

gray smoke trickle out of the corner of his mouth, Alex was reminded of a 

gangster in an old black-and-white film. As far as he was concerned, the habit 

couldn‟t kill McCain quickly enough. 

McCain stirred his coffee with a second silver straw. The night had become very 

still, as if even the animals out in the bush had decided to listen in. The breeze had 

dropped and the air was heavy and warm. 

“There are two ways to become rich,” McCain began again. “You can persuade one 

person to give you a lot of money—but that means finding someone who is wealthy 

and stupid enough in the first place, and it may involve criminal violence. Or you can 

ask a great many people to give you a little money. This was the thought that 

obsessed me while I was in prison, and it was there that I came up with my idea. It 

was easy enough to fake my conversion to Christianity. Everyone likes a sinner who 

repents. And it certainly impressed the parole board. I was released a long time 

before I had completed my sentence and I immediately set up my charity, First 

Aid. The aim, as I described it, was to be the first organization to respond to 

disasters wherever they took place. 

“I would imagine that you know very little about international charity, Alex. But 

when a catastrophe occurs—the Asian tsunami in 2004 is a good example—people 

all over the world rush to respond. Old-age pensioners dip into their savings. Ten 

dollars here, twenty dollars there. It soon adds up. At the same time, banks and 

businesses fight to outdo each other with very public displays of generosity. None 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

of them really care about people dying in undeveloped countries. Some donate 

because they feel guilty about their own wealth. Others, as I say, do it for the 

publicity—” 

“I don‟t agree with you,” Alex cut in. He was thinking of Brookland School and the 

money they had collected for Comic Relief. There had been a whole week of 

activities and everyone had been proud of what they had achieved. “You see the 

world this way because you‟re greedy and mad. People give to charity because they 

want to help.” 

“Your opinions mean nothing to me,” McCain snapped, and Alex was pleased to see 

that he was annoyed. The anger was pricking at his eyes. “And if you interrupt 

again, I‟ll have you tied down and beaten.” He leaned forward and sucked at his 

coffee. “The motives are irrelevant anyway. What counts is the money. Six hundred 

million dollars was raised for the tsunami in the United Kingdom alone. It‟s very 

difficult to say what a charity like Oxfam raises over a period of twelve months, 

but I can tell you that last year they raised the same figure—six hundred million in 

Great Britain. That was just one office. Oxfam also has branches in a dozen other 

countries and subbranches in places like India and Mexico. You do the math!” 

McCain fell silent. For a moment, his eyes were far away. 

“Millions and millions of dollars and pounds and Euros,” he murmured. “And because 

the cash comes so quickly and in such large amounts, it is almost impossible to 

follow. An ordinary business has accountants. But a charity operates in many 

countries, often in appalling conditions—which makes it much less easy to pin down.” 

“So basically you‟re just a common thief,” Alex said. He knew he was treading close 

to the line, but he couldn‟t resist needling McCain. “You‟re planning to steal a lot of 

money.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

McCain nodded. Surprisingly, he didn‟t seem to be offended. “I am a thief. But not 

a common one at all. I am the greatest thief who ever lived. And I do not need to 

take the money. People give it to me willingly.” 

“You said you were going to create a disaster.” 

“I‟m glad you were listening. That is exactly what I am going to do . . . or perhaps I 

should say it is exactly what I have done. What we have done. The disaster is 

already happening, even as we sit here in this pleasant night air.” 

He stubbed out his cigarette and lit another. 

“People need a reason to give money, and my genius, if you will forgive the word, has 

simply been to work out that the reason can be created, artificially. I can give you 

an example. A serious accident took place last year at the Jowada nuclear power 

station in Chennai, southern India. You may remember reading about it in the 

newspapers. That was a fairly simple matter, a bomb carried into the plant by one 

of my operatives. I have to say that the results were disappointing. The full force 

of the blast and the resulting radioactivity were contained and did less damage 

than I had hoped. But even so, First Aid was the first on the scene and received 

more than two million dollars in donations. Some of it, of course, we had to give 

away. We had to buy large quantities of some sort of antiradiation drug, and we 

had to pay for advertising. Even so, we made a tax-free profit of about eight 

hundred thousand dollars. It was a useful dress rehearsal for the event I was 

planning here, in Kenya. It also helped us with our operating costs.” 

“And what are you planning here? What do you mean when you say I started it?” 

“We‟ll come back to you in a minute, Alex. But what I am planning here is a good 

old-fashioned plague. Not just in Kenya, but in Uganda and Tanzania too. I am 

talking about a disaster on a scale never seen before. And the beauty of it is that I 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

am completely in control. But I don‟t need to describe it to you. I can show you. I 

am, as you will see, one step ahead of the game.” 

McCain opened his laptop computer and spun it around so that Alex could see the 

screen. “When the disaster begins, a few weeks from now, other charities will rush 

to the scene. In a sense, all charities are waiting for bad things to happen. It is the 

reason for their existence. We need to be faster than them. The first on the 

ground will scoop the lion‟s share of the money. So we have already prepared our 

appeal . . .” 

He pressed the Enter button. 

A film began to play on the computer. Slowly, the camera zoomed in on an African 

village. At first, everything seemed normal. But then Alex heard the buzz of flies 

and saw the first dead bodies. A couple of cows lay on their sides with bloated 

stomachs and rigid, distended legs. The camera passed an eagle which seemed to 

have crash-landed, slamming into the dust. And at the same time, he heard a voice 

speaking in a soft, urgent tone. 

“Something terrible is happening in Kenya,” the commentary began. “A dreadful 

plague has hit the land and nobody knows how it began. But people are dying. In the 

thousands. The oldest and the youngest have been the first to go . . .” 

Now the camera had reached the first child, staring up with empty eyes. 

“Animals are not immune. African wildlife is being decimated. This beautiful 

country is in the grip of a nightmare and we urgently need money, now, to save it 

before it‟s too late. First Aid is running emergency food supplies. First Aid is 

already on the ground with vital medicine and fresh water. First Aid is funding 

urgent scientific research to find the cause of this disaster and to bring it to an 

end. But we cannot do it without you. Please send as much as you can today. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Call us or visit our website. Our lines are open twenty-four hours a day. Save 

Kenya. Save the people. How can we ignore their cry for help?” 

The final image showed a giraffe stretched out in the grass with part of its rib 

cage jutting through its side. A telephone number and a web address were printed 

over them with the First Aid logo below. 

“I am particularly pleased with the giraffe,” McCain said. He tapped the keyboard 

and froze the picture. “Many people in the first world just look away when a child 

or an old woman dies in the street. But they‟ll weep over a dead animal. A great 

many giraffes and elephants will die in Kenya in the next few months. It should 

double the amount we receive.” 

Alex sat in silence. Everything that McCain was saying sickened him. But it was 

worse than that. He knew exactly what he was looking at. The African village on 

the screen. He had been there. He had stood in the same village when he had 

broken into the Elm‟s Cross film studio. The only thing that was different was the 

backdrop. The green cyclorama was gone, replaced by swirling clouds and forest. 

“You‟ve made it all up,” he gasped. “It‟s all fake. You built the village. It‟s a set.” 

“We were merely preparing ourselves for the reality,” McCain explained. “As soon 

as the first reports of the Kenyan plague hit the press, we will come forward with 

our television appeal. There will be advertisements in all the newspapers and on 

posters. This will happen not just in England but in America, Australia, another 

dozen countries. And then we will sit back and wait for the money to flood in.” 

“And you‟re going to keep it! You‟re not going to help anyone!” 

McCain smiled and blew smoke. “There‟s nothing anyone can do,” he said. “Once the 

plague begins, there will be no stopping it. I can tell you that with certainty 

because, of course, I created it.” 

“Greenfields . . .” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Exactly. I wish my good friend Leonard Straik was here to explain the science of 

it, but I‟m afraid he met with an accident and won‟t be joining us. You could say he 

choked on a snail. Except the snail in question was the marbled cone variety and 

deadly poisonous. I have a feeling that Leonard‟s heart had exploded before I 

forced it down his throat.” 

So McCain had murdered Straik. Presumably, he didn‟t want to share his profits 

with anyone. Alex filed the information away. He had to find a way to contact MI6. 

“It works like this,” McCain explained. He was enjoying himself and he didn‟t try to 

hide it. “You don‟t seem to have spent a lot of time at school, Alex, but can I 

assume you‟ve heard of genes? Every single cell in your body has about thirty 

thousand of them—and they are basically tiny pieces of code that make you what 

you are. The color of your hair, your eyes, and so on. It‟s all down to the genes. 

“Plants are made up of genes too. The genes tell the plant what to do . . . whether 

to taste nice or not, for example. Now, what Mr. Straik and his friends at 

Greenfields were doing was changing the nature of plants by effectively adding a 

single gene. Plants are more complicated than you might think. For example, the 

information required to make a single stalk of wheat would take up one hundred 

books with one thousand pages each. And here‟s the remarkable thing. If you added 

just one paragraph of new information—the equivalent of an extra gene—you would 

change the entire library. Your wheat might still look like wheat, but it would be 

very different. It might not be quite so tasty, for example, if eaten with milk and 

sugar for breakfast. It might, in fact, kill you. 

“Do you see where I‟m going with this? I‟m talking about taking something very 

ordinary and agreeable and turning it into something lethal. And this actually 

happens in every kitchen in the world almost every day of the week! Only, in 

reverse. Let me try to explain it to you. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I‟m sure you enjoy potatoes. Young boys like you eat them all the time . . . as chips 

or as fries. It probably never occurs to you that you are actually eating a poisonous 

plant. Not many people realize that the potato is closely related to deadly 

nightshade. Its leaves and flowers are extremely toxic. They won‟t kill you, but 

they would make you very sick indeed. What you actually eat is the tuber, the bit 

that grows underground. 

“The tubers, of course, are delicious—but they can also be made to harm you. If 

you leave them out in the sun, even for one day, they turn green and taste bitter. 

If you eat them after that, you will be sick. And why has this happened? There‟s a 

gene—a genetic switch—hidden inside the potato tuber. It‟s completely harmless 

and almost invisible—but the sunlight seeks it out and turns it on. And once that 

happens, the potato tuber behaves differently. It goes green. It becomes 

poisonous. You have to throw it away. 

“For the last five years, Greenfields Bio Center has been supplying seed to grow 

wheat in several African countries. The wheat has been genetically modified to 

need less water and to produce extra vitamins. But what nobody knows is that 

Leonard Straik used his particle delivery system to add an extra gene to the 

package. Like the potato gene I just told you about, it‟s harmless. A loaf of Kenyan 

bread made out of home-grown Kenyan wheat will be fine. But once the genetic 

switch has been activated, although the wheat will look exactly the same, it will 

begin to change. It will quietly produce a toxin known as ricin. Ricin normally grows 

in castor beans and is one of the most lethal substances known to man. A tiny 

capsule of the stuff would kill an adult. And very soon it will be growing all over 

Africa.” 

“That stuff I found in your office,” Alex muttered. “In the test tube . . .” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“You‟re very quick,” McCain said. “The more I get to know you, Alex, the more I like 

you. Yes. That is our activating agent. It is a sort of mushroom soup. And this is 

very important. It‟s not a chemical, it‟s a living organism—which is to say it can 

reproduce itself. 

“Again, I can explain this to you by taking you back to the kitchen. If you place an 

ordinary mushroom on a piece of paper and leave it overnight, you‟ll notice a 

blackish sort of dust covering the surface the next day. What you are looking at 

are spores. If they are released outside, the spores will spread—a little bit like 

the common cold, traveling from one field to another. It may interest you to know 

that the Irish Potato Blight of 1845, which caused the death by starvation of 

almost a million people, was caused by a spore attacking the potato crop. 

“I can see from your face that you‟re beginning to understand the exact purpose of 

the flight that you took this morning. You were kind enough to help Dr. Beckett by 

pulling a lever inside the Piper Cub, and when you did this, you sprayed a single field 

of genetically modified wheat with the activating agent. Leonard Straik told me 

that it would take exactly thirty-six hours for the reaction to occur. So, at sunset 

tomorrow, the genetic switch will be thrown and the wheat in the field will begin to 

produce ricin. But that will only be the start of it. Once the spores have done their 

work, they will move on. The wind will carry them to the next field and to the one 

after that. Nothing will be able to stop them. Nothing will stand in their way. 

“The birds will be the first to die. A little peck of poisoned wheat and they‟ll look 

like the plastic eagle you saw in that film. Then it will be the turn of the people. 

It‟s hard to believe that a loaf of bread in the local baker‟s or wrapped in plastic on 

a supermarket shelf will contain enough poison to kill an entire family. But it will. It 

will have become a slice of death. Animals will die too. It will be as if God has 

passed judgment on the whole of Kenya. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Except that it won‟t stop at the borders. Greenfields has sold millions of seeds to 

the African people . . . in Uganda, Tanzania, and all around. Soon the contamination 

will have spread across the whole continent.” 

“They‟ll realize,” Alex said. “People will know that the wheat is poisoned and they‟ll 

stop eating it. They‟ll burn the fields.” 

“That‟s exactly right, Alex. It will all be over very quickly. It won‟t even make a 

great economic difference to Kenya. They only grow 135,000 tons of wheat a year, 

and a lot of their food is imported. But that‟s why First Aid has to act fast. It‟ll be 

in the initial panic, the first weeks, that we‟ll make our billions. First Aid will 

publicize the catastrophe to the world, and people will rush to give money without 

thinking. And what do you think they‟ll do when they discover that it‟s only the 

wheat that has mysteriously developed this sickness, that the plague can be 

contained? Do you think they‟ll ask for their donations back? I don‟t think so. 

“And anyway, it will be too late. By then, I will have moved to Switzerland. I 

already have a new identity waiting for me. I will have plastic surgery . . . this time, 

I think, more successfully. I will reemerge as a slightly mysterious billionaire 

businessman, but I don‟t think people will ask too many questions about who I am or 

where I‟ve come from. I already discovered this when I was partying in politics. 

When you are rich, people treat you with respect.” 

McCain fell silent. He had completed his explanation and sat back, almost 

exhausted, waiting for Alex to respond. There was a sudden hiss as one of the logs 

in the fire collapsed in on itself and a flurry of sparks leapt into the night air. The 

guards had disappeared from sight, but Alex knew they would be watching and 

would come in an instant if they were needed. He felt sick. It had been a final 

twist, a little act of extra cruelty to make him pull the lever that had released the 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

spores. There had been no real reason for it. It was just how McCain and his 

fiancée got their kicks. 

“So what happens next?” he asked. “What do you want with me?” 

“Is that all you want to know? Haven‟t you got anything to say about my plan?” 

“I think your plan is as sick as you are, Mr. McCain. I‟m not interested in it. I‟m not 

interested in you. I just want to know why I‟m here.” 

Perhaps McCain had been expecting applause or at least some sort of reaction from 

Alex; he was clearly disappointed, and when he spoke, his voice was sullen. “Very 

well,” he said. “I might as well tell you.” 

He had finished his second cigarette. He ground that out too. 

“I have been thinking a great deal, Alex, about how you managed to cross my path 

on two occasions. The first time was at Kilmore Castle in Scotland. You were with 

the journalist Edward Pleasure. Why were you there?” 

“I‟m a friend of his daughter.” Alex couldn‟t see any harm in admitting the truth. 

“He invited me.” 

McCain considered for a moment. “Pure coincidence, then. Unfortunately for you, I 

was concerned about Pleasure,” he continued. “I had been warned that he might be 

dangerous and I wondered how much he knew about me. I only agreed to be 

interviewed by him because to have refused might have raised his suspicions. And 

then, when I heard the two of you talking about genetic engineering—” 

“You thought he was talking about his article?” Alex almost wanted to laugh. “I was 

telling him about my homework! He‟d asked me how I was doing at school!” 

“I believe you, Alex. But at the time, I couldn‟t take any chances. If Pleasure had 

found out about my involvement with Greenfields, he would have put this entire 

operation in jeopardy.” 

“So you decided to kill him. You had one of your people shoot out his tire.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Actually, Myra did it for me. She was there too that night. Of course, there was a 

certain risk attached. But as I have already told you, I am something of a gambler. 

Perhaps that‟s why I allowed myself to lose my temper when you managed to beat 

me at cards.” 

He lifted a hand and waved. It was a signal. Two guards, both carrying rifles, began 

to approach the table. Beckett was with them. 

“The first time we met may have been a coincidence,” McCain said. “The second 

time most definitely was not. You were sent to Greenfields by MI6. There is no 

point in attempting to deny it. You were carrying equipment that allowed you to jam 

the surveillance camera, and you also exploded a chimney on the recycling unit roof. 

It is therefore absolutely critical for me to discover how much the intelligence 

services know about me and in particular about this operation. In short, I need to 

know why you were at Greenfields. How much of my conversation with Leonard 

Straik did you overhear? What were you able to tell MI6?” 

Alex was about to speak, but McCain held up a hand, stopping him. Beckett and the 

two guards had reached the table. They were standing behind Alex, waiting to 

escort him back to his tent. 

“I do not want to hear any more from you tonight,” McCain said. “It is already clear 

to me that you are brave and intelligent. It is quite possible that you would be able 

to deceive me. So I want you to consider the questions I have asked you. I will ask 

them again in the morning. 

“But the next time I put them to you, it will not be over a pleasant dinner.” McCain 

leaned forward, and Alex saw the ferocity in his eyes. “ „Behold, I have the keys of 

hell and death,‟ as it says in the book of Revelation. Tomorrow, I intend to torture 

you, Alex. I want you to sleep tonight in the knowledge that when the sun rises, I 

am going to inflict terror on you such as you have never known in your life. I am 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

going to strip you of your courage and your bravado so that when you open your 

mouth and speak to me, you will tell me everything I want to know and won‟t even 

contemplate lying. Over this table, you have made some jokes at my expense, but 

you will not be making jokes when we meet again. You must be prepared to shed 

tears, Alex. Leave me now. And try to imagine, if you will, the horror that awaits 

you.” 

Alex felt the two men grab hold of his arms. He shrugged them off and stood up. 

“You can do what you like to me, Mr. McCain,” he said. “But your plan will never 

work. MI6 will find you and they‟ll kill you. I expect they‟re already on their way.” 

“You‟re right about one thing,” McCain replied. “I can do anything I like to you. And 

very soon I will. Good night, Alex. I‟ll leave you to your dreams.” 

Alex was taken away. The last thing he saw was Myra Beckett standing behind 

McCain, massaging his shoulders. McCain himself was leaning forward with his 

elbows on the table, his hands in front of his face. He looked very much as if he 

was at prayer. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

20 

 

PURE TORTURE 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

THE SUN ROSE ALL TOO SOON. 

Barely able to sleep, Alex watched the sides of his tent turn gray, silver, then 

finally a dirty yellow as the morning light intensified. He had lost his watch and he 

had no idea of the time, but being so close to the equator, he suspected the sun 

was up early here. When would they come for him? Exactly what sort of torture 

did McCain have in mind? 

He lay back and closed his eyes, trying to fight off the demons of fear and despair. 

The fact was that he was completely in McCain‟s power. And McCain wasn‟t taking 

any chances; two Kikuyu guards had stood watch outside his tent all night. He had 

heard them murmuring in low voices and had seen the occasional flare of a match as 

they lit cigarettes. Once, he thought he had heard a plane flying low overhead, but 

apart from that there had been nothing except the usual eternal sounds of the 

bush. Alex had been left entirely on his own, unable to sleep. Right now, he was 

close to exhaustion. He could see no way out. 

The sun was getting stronger by the minute. Alex thought of it beating down in the 

Simba Valley, just two miles to the north. The wheat would be growing taller, 

turning gold. And the deadly spores that he himself had released would be 

activating themselves. By the end of the day, they would have begun to spread, 

lifted by the breeze, carrying poison and death all over Africa. Alex‟s eyes flicked 

open and suddenly he was angry. Why was he wasting time and energy worrying 

about himself when, in a few hours, an entire continent might begin to die? 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Without any warning, the flap of the tent opened and Myra Beckett stepped inside, 

dressed in white with a round straw hat—the sort of thing a schoolgirl might have 

worn a hundred years ago. She had clipped two dark lenses over her spectacles to 

protect herself from the sun‟s glare. They made her look less human and more 

robotic than ever. 

She was obviously surprised to see Alex lying on the bed, seemingly relaxed. “How 

did you sleep?” she asked. 

“I slept very well, thank you,” Alex lied. “Have you brought my breakfast?” 

The woman scowled. “I think you will find you are the breakfast.” She gestured at 

the exit. “Desmond is waiting. Let me show you the way . . .” 

It was another beautiful day with just a few wisps of cloud in an otherwise perfect 

sky. There was a familiar chatter above Alex‟s head and he looked up to see that at 

least one monkey had dared to come back, looking down on him with shock-filled 

eyes as if it knew what was about to happen. Birds with long tails and brilliant 

plumage hopped along the pathways. There would have been a time when tourists 

would have woken up to this scenery and thought themselves in heaven. But one 

sight of the glowering guards reminded Alex. McCain had turned it into his own 

peculiar version of hell. 

“It‟s not very far,” Beckett said. “Please, follow me.” 

She led him out of the camp, away from the landing strip, and also away from the 

open area where he had eaten the night before. Alex was still wearing part of his 

school uniform—the shirt, pants, and shoes. Even with his sleeves rolled up, he was 

still too warm and sweaty, but they hadn‟t bothered to give him any fresh clothes. 

He had just one crumb of comfort. The gel-ink pen was in his pants pocket. Even 

now he might get a chance to use it. He had no other surprises left. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

With two guards behind him and the woman a few steps ahead, he was taken down a 

path that followed the edge of the river. The camp disappeared behind them, and 

looking ahead in the far distance, Alex saw a family of elephants washing 

themselves in the sparkling water. It was an extraordinary sight, but Alex couldn‟t 

enjoy it. Not when it might be the last thing he ever saw. 

Desmond McCain was waiting ahead of them, dressed comfortably in a well-tailored 

safari suit with a white silk neckerchief. It seemed they had arrived at their 

destination. Alex looked around him. He didn‟t like what he saw. 

A steep slope ran down to a stretch of sandy shingle, a narrow beach at the very 

edge of the water. There was a stepladder, about twenty feet high, standing on 

the beach, and above it a metal pipe that had been fastened to the branch of a 

tree. The pipe ended with two handles and reminded Alex of a periscope in a 

submarine. A wooden observation platform had been constructed at the top of the 

slope. This was where McCain was standing. 

Alex had already worked out what might be going on here and was making 

calculations. If he walked down to the beach and climbed the ladder, he would be 

able to reach the handles. Then the ladder could be taken away and he would be 

left hanging from the pipe. He would be close enough to the platform to be able to 

talk to McCain and to hear what he had to say—but not close enough to reach him. 

Because the pipe was rigid, he wouldn‟t be able to swing back and forth. In other 

words, he would simply have to stay there until his arms grew tired and he dropped. 

The question was—why? What was the point? 

“This will not take very long, Alex,” McCain said. He had watched Alex taking 

everything in. “I will talk to you a little bit, and then, I‟m afraid, we will begin. As I 

have already told you, I need most urgently the answer to three questions. What 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

was it that brought you to Greenfields? Why did MI6 send you? And how much do 

the intelligence services know about Poison Dawn?” 

Alex had already decided what he was going to say. “You don‟t need to play your 

sadistic games, Mr. McCain,” he said. “I‟ll tell you what you want to know anyway.” 

McCain held up a hand. “I don‟t think you were listening to me last night. Of course 

you will tell me what I want to hear. That is the point I‟m trying to make. You will 

tell me anything to protect yourself. But I have to be one hundred percent certain 

that you are telling me the truth. There cannot be even the tiniest margin of 

doubt.” 

“And you think torturing me will achieve that?” 

“Normally, no. There are many horrible things I could do to you, Alex. We have 

electricity here and wires attached to various parts of your body could produce 

excruciating pain. My Kikuyu friends could take you far beyond the limits of 

endurance using only their spears, perhaps heated first in the flames of a fire. We 

could cut pieces off of you. We could boil you alive. And do not think for a single 

minute that I would hesitate to do any of this because you are fourteen. MI6 

clearly does not think of you as a child, so why should I?” 

“Is part of the torture boring me to death?” Alex asked. 

McCain nodded. “Bravely spoken, Alex. Let us see how brave you are ten minutes 

from now.” He took out a handkerchief and wiped his brow. The sun was beating 

down on his bald head, and beads of sweat were standing out. “The pain that you 

are about to experience is going to be all the worse because you will inflict it on 

yourself. You will, as it were, cooperate with your torturers. And you will do so to 

escape the terror that lies below.” He took out a gun, an old-fashioned Mauser with 

a shortened barrel and a white ivory plate over the grip. It looked like something 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

out of a museum. “I would like you now to go down to the river,” he explained. “If 

you refuse to do so, if you attempt to run away, I will shoot you through the knee.” 

Alex stood where he was. Beckett was smiling properly for the first time, and he 

realized that she knew what to expect, that she had seen this all before. The two 

tribesmen were covering him with their rifles. If McCain missed with his pistol, 

they would certainly gun him down before he‟d taken a single step. He glanced at 

the beach and at the river. There was nobody else down there. He had a nasty 

feeling he wasn‟t going to be alone for long. 

“I‟m waiting, Alex,” McCain said. 

Without speaking, Alex made his way down the slope. Now McCain and the others 

were directly above him, looking down from the protected height of the 

observation platform. Alex was reminded of a Roman emperor and his entourage. 

They were in the royal box. He was the gladiator, about to entertain them. 

“This is part of the River Simba,” McCain explained. “It runs all the way up to the 

Simba Dam and Lake Simba beyond. It is the water from this river that will be 

feeding my wheat field, Alex. And as you are about to learn, it is infested with 

crocodiles.” 

“Here comes one now!” Beckett crowed. 

Crocodiles. 

Alex turned to see a dark shape on the opposite bank slither forward and launch 

itself into the water, followed quickly by a second. There was something strikingly 

evil about the way they moved. They twisted and sliced their way through the 

water like two knife wounds, and somehow they managed to swim—or slither—very 

quickly without seeming to be in a hurry. They would be across the river in less 

than a minute. They somehow knew he was here. But then, of course, they had been 

fed this way before. And Alex had a feeling they were hungry. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Alex looked up. Beckett was gazing at him with her mouth open, and he could see 

the saliva glistening on her lips and tongue. McCain was next to her, his gun held 

loosely, watching with interest. He glanced back. The crocodiles were halfway 

across the river. His first instinct was to run, but he knew he would be shot if he 

tried. Nor would he be allowed back on the platform. Everything had been carefully 

arranged. There was only one way of escape. 

Sick with himself, knowing that he was doing exactly what McCain wanted, Alex 

climbed the stepladder. He was trying not to panic, but now his every instinct was 

driving him up, out of harm‟s way. As he drew nearer to the top, he felt the whole 

structure tremble underneath him and for one terrible moment he thought he was 

going to fall. Somehow, he managed to steady himself. He reached the top even as 

the first crocodile heaved itself out of the water and began to crawl toward him. 

Alex turned back and looked at it. It was a mistake. In an instant he felt the 

terror that McCain had promised him, the deep-rooted fear of this ancient 

monster that had to be hot-wired into every human being. The crocodile that had 

just emerged was almost twice his own size, from the ugly snout to the writhing tip 

of its tail. Its great mouth was open, with two lines of ferocious white teeth 

waiting to snap shut on his arm or leg. That was how they operated, of course, 

clamping down on their victim and then dragging them back into the water. And only 

when the bones were loose and the flesh had begun to decompose would they begin 

their feast. 

But worst of all were the eyes, midnight black, snake-like, and swollen on the side 

of its head, surely too small for its body and filled with hatred. They really were 

the eyes of death. Alex had heard it said that crocodiles wept as they attacked 

their prey, but there would be no pity in those eyes. They were part of a machine 

that existed only to kill. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The second crocodile was a little smaller and much quicker. Alex saw it overtake 

the other, scuttling over the shingle on its short, squat legs, all the way to the foot 

of the ladder. 

He climbed the last few steps, using his hands to steady himself at the top. If he 

fell! . . . He could imagine it. Smashing into the shingle. Perhaps breaking an ankle or 

a leg. And then being torn apart between the two animals as they fought over him. 

There could be no more horrible death. 

The crocodile threw itself at the ladder and the whole thing shuddered. How many 

people had McCain terrorized in this way? He looked up. He still wasn‟t level with 

the observation platform. He knew what he had to do. With dreadful care, he 

balanced himself on the highest step. The handles at the end of the pipe were 

directly above him. Swaying, using his arms to steady himself, he reached up and 

grabbed hold of them. His fingers closed around them even as the larger crocodile 

reared up, throwing its entire weight against the ladder. The whole thing came 

crashing down. Alex was left dangling in space. 

And now he saw how McCain had arranged things. 

He was facing McCain, the two of them level with each other, no more than a yard 

apart. The two crocodiles were directly underneath Alex, climbing on top of each 

other, snapping at the air. For the moment he was safe. But he was stretched out, 

hanging in space, clinging to the pipe by his fingers. His wrists and arms were 

already feeling the strain as they supported his entire body weight, and the burn 

of lactic acid was building up in his shoulders. It was just as McCain had said. He 

was actually inflicting the pain on himself, and it would get worse the longer he 

hung there. In the end, of course, he would have to let go. And that was the horror 

of it. Once he dropped, there would only be more pain and then death. How long did 

he have? 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“The longest anyone has ever remained where you are is eighteen minutes,” McCain 

said. He spoke slowly and evenly. He didn‟t have to raise his voice to make himself 

heard. “The man in question had lost his sanity before the end. He was giggling as 

he fell. But you, Alex, you have one hope, one chance of survival. My men can shoot 

at the crocodiles and scare them away. But first you have to answer my questions, 

and you have to make me believe you. If you can make that happen, then you will be 

safe.” 

Alex swore. It was difficult to speak. All his concentration was fixed on his hands, 

the increasing pain in his arms, the need not to let go. 

“I dislike that sort of language, Alex,” McCain said. “I am, after all, an ordained 

priest. Would you like me to go away for five minutes and come back when you‟re in 

a better frame of mind?” 

One of the crocodiles leapt toward him. Instinctively, Alex pulled his legs up, 

curving them in toward his stomach. The movement put extra strain on his arms, 

but he actually heard the jaws of the animal snap together and he knew there were 

mere inches between it and his ankles. 

“No,” he shouted. His voice was strangled. He didn‟t sound like himself. But he had 

to get this over with. “Ask me what you want.” 

He had been hanging for less than a minute. It already felt longer. He would never 

manage another five, let along another seventeen. In his desperation, he found 

himself twisting around. His wrists crossed and he had to jerk his body to bring 

himself face-to-face with McCain. 

“The first question, then.” McCain paused. He was speaking deliberately slowly. He 

knew that every second only added to the torture. “Why were you at Greenfields?” 

“It was a school trip.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“You‟re still lying to me, Alex. I‟m going to leave you for a little while . . .” McCain 

turned his back on Alex and walked away. Below, on the beach, the crocodiles were 

writhing together in a frenzy of claws and scales and black eyes and teeth. 

“It‟s the truth!” Alex shouted after him. His hands were sweating, making it even 

more difficult to keep his grip. “It was a biology project for my teacher Mr. 

Gilbert. But then MI6 asked me to help them. They weren‟t interested in you. It 

was Leonard Straik.” 

McCain turned back. “Go on.” 

“There was someone in Greenfields. An informer . . .” What was his name? Alex 

thought back desperately. “Philip Masters. He‟d gone to the police and then he was 

killed. That was why they wanted to find out about Straik.” 

“You broke into his computer.” 

“They gave me a memory stick. That was all they asked me to do.” 

“What about Poison Dawn?” 

“They never said anything about Poison Dawn. They never even mentioned it to me. 

I‟m telling you, they only knew about you and Straik when I told them I‟d seen you 

together.” 

“That was very unfortunate. What else did you tell them?” 

“I told them I heard the two of you talking . . . but you didn‟t say anything that 

made any sense. I gave them the stuff I found in Straik‟s office.” To Alex, it was 

as if his arms were being torn out of his shoulders. He could feel his body hanging 

in space. He didn‟t dare look at the crocodiles below. “But I never even spoke to 

them again. I don‟t know what they know. They don‟t know anything else. . . .” 

McCain let him dangle in silence. Ten seconds dragged to twenty and then to half a 

minute. Alex felt every one of them. He could feel his bones wrenching in their 

sockets and knew that McCain was doing this on purpose. He was staring straight 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

into Alex‟s eyes as if trying to read what was going on inside his mind. Alex tried to 

ease his grip, but his palms were so slippery that the smallest movement could 

make him fall. Beckett had moved closer to him. She was breathing heavily, 

watching Alex struggle with evident delight. He could see himself reflected in the 

dark circles of her glasses. 

The silence stretched out. Alex could actually smell the crocodiles; a deep, sickly 

odor of stale fish and decaying meat that rose up and crept into his nostrils. He 

was finding it difficult to breathe. The pain was getting worse and worse. All the 

muscles in his upper body were burning. 

“I believe you,” McCain said at last. “You are telling the truth.” 

“Then get rid of them!” Alex jerked his head down at the two crocodiles. They 

were silent now, as if they knew it was only a matter of time before they were 

given what they wanted. 

Another long pause. Alex‟s arms screamed. 

“I‟m afraid not,” McCain said. 

“What?” Alex shouted the word. 

“You have annoyed me very much, Alex. I tried to kill you when you were in 

Scotland, and it would have been a lot better if I had. Your activity at Greenfields 

very nearly brought an end to an operation that has taken me five years and a 

great deal of money to develop. Thanks to you, my name is now known to MI6, and 

that will make my future life more difficult. And, added to that, you are a very 

rude and unpleasant boy, and all in all, I think you deserve to die.” He turned to 

Myra Beckett. “I know you enjoy this, my love, so you can stay to the end. I‟ll be 

interested to know how many minutes he manages to hang on before he falls. I 

somehow doubt that he‟ll beat the record.” 

The woman took out her mobile phone. “I‟ll take photographs for you, Dezzy.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

McCain took one last look at Alex. “I hope you die painfully,” he said. “Because 

although you have not lived long, I really think you deserve a painful death.” 

He signaled to the guards and the three of them walked away. But he had given his 

gun to Beckett. She was holding it in one hand, the mobile phone in the other. 

Behind him, Alex heard a splash. A third crocodile had launched itself into the 

river and was already wriggling its way across. 

“Four minutes.” The woman glanced at her watch. “I do not think you will make it to 

five.” 

And she was right. Everything was pain and with every second the pain was getting 

worse. Alex couldn‟t swing himself to safety. He couldn‟t climb. He couldn‟t move. 

He could only fall. 

He closed his eyes and knew that very soon he would do just that. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

21 

 

RAW DEAL 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

SEVEN MINUTES. MAYBE EIGHT MINUTES. Alex wasn‟t even sure why he was 

hanging on anymore. The sooner he dropped, the sooner it would all be over. His 

whole body was racked by pain and his blood was pounding in his ears and behind his 

eyes. With every second that passed, the strength was draining out of his arms. He 

tried to accept what was about to happen: his fingers slipping out of the metal 

handles, the short fall down to the riverbank, the jarring impact, and then the final 

horror as the crocodiles attacked. 

Myra Beckett leaned forward. “Do you have any last words?” she asked. “Any good-

byes you want to make? I can record them for you.” She held out her mobile phone. 

“Go rot in hell.” Alex‟s eyes felt as if they were swollen shut, but he forced them 

open, staring straight at her. 

“You are the one on the way to hell, my dear,” she said. 

Her eyes widened. She took a step forward as if something had surprised her. 

Once again she opened her mouth and Alex thought she was about to speak, but 

instead, a stream of blood poured over her lower lip. A moment later, she pitched 

forward and fell and Alex glimpsed the hilt of a knife jutting out of the back of 

her neck. Desperately clinging onto the handles, he cork-screwed around and 

looked down. The woman had landed in the middle of the crocodiles. She was still 

alive. He heard her scream as she was torn apart, her arms and legs being pulled in 

three directions. He turned away. He couldn‟t watch any more. 

He was going to join her. His own strength was gone. He felt his fingers opening. 

But then suddenly there was a man on the observation platform, leaning out, 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

reaching toward him, and even as he wondered where the man had come from, he 

knew that he had seen him somewhere before. 

“Alex!” the man called. “Take my hand.” 

“I can‟t reach . . .” 

“One effort. You can make it.” 

The distance was too great. Alex would have to let go with one hand and throw 

himself sideways, reaching out with the other. If he miscalculated or if the man 

was tricking him, that would be it. The crocodiles would get a second feed. 

“Now!” The man couldn‟t shout. They were too close to the lodge. His voice was an 

urgent whisper. 

Alex did as he was told, stretching as far as he could, using every muscle to propel 

his body away from the handles. The man was leaning out. And somehow, just when 

Alex was certain he would fall, they managed to lock together, wrist in hand and 

hand over wrist. 

“Okay. I‟ve got you. I‟ll take your weight.” 

Alex let go of the handle. He felt the man pull him toward the platform. Even so, 

there was one dreadful moment when he was sure they had overbalanced and they 

would fall together. He came crashing down. But he was right on the edge of the 

platform. He clawed at the wooden planks and managed to find some purchase. His 

legs were dangling below him, but then he pulled himself forward and rolled over on 

his side. He was lying next to the man who had just rescued him. He was safe. 

For a few seconds he lay in silence, recovering his breath and waiting for his 

jangling nerves to calm down. Then he looked up. “Who are you?” he asked. 

“Not now.” The man was Asian, young, with very dark skin and close-cropped hair, 

dressed in camouflage khakis with a harness for three knives slanting across his 

chest. One knife was missing. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Alex knew him at once. With a sense of astonishment he remembered where they 

had met before. It was the man from Loch Arkaig, the driver of the white van who 

had appeared from nowhere when he had crawled out of the freezing water. He 

had driven Alex, Sabina, and Edward Pleasure to the hospital. And now he was here! 

What sort of guardian angel was he, operating on two sides of the world? 

“My name is Rahim,” the man said. “But now we must leave. When they find the 

woman is missing, they will come looking for her. Here . . . give me your shirt.” 

Alex didn‟t know what the man was thinking, but this was no time for an argument. 

He stripped off his school shirt and handed it over. Rahim took out a second knife 

and cut the shirt to shreds, then tossed it down to the crocodiles. There were only 

two of them down there, fighting over what was left of the woman. The other had 

returned to the river, dragging part of her with it. 

The pieces of Alex‟s shirt fluttered down onto the riverbank. “It may fool them,” 

Rahim said. “It may not. Let‟s go.” 

“Go where?” 

“I have a camp.” 

Alex followed Rahim off the observation platform and away from the river, heading 

into the bush. He was alarmed to see that Rahim was limping badly and that the 

back of his jacket was covered in sweat. The man had a fever. Alex had also seen it 

in his eyes. He was a soldier of some sort, extremely fit. But he was also hurt. It 

was only willpower that was keeping him going. 

Even so, they kept up a fast pace for the next fifteen minutes, finally arriving at a 

clearing dominated by a huge Kigelia africana, or sausage tree, with its strange 

black pods hanging underneath the branches. This was where Rahim had set up a 

makeshift camp. Alex saw a backpack, a few tins of food, and—at least this 

answered one of his questions—a parachute made of black silk, bunched up and 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

tucked under a bush. A very sophisticated-looking gun was leaning against the trunk 

of the tree. It was a Dragunov SVD99 gas-operated sniper rifle, built in Russia but 

used extensively by the Indian army. 

Rahim went over to the backpack and took out a spare T-shirt. He threw it over to 

Alex. “Here. You can wear this.” He opened a water bottle and drank, then offered 

it to Alex. Alex took a swig. The water was warm and tasted of chemicals. 

“You were in Scotland,” Alex said. 

“Yes.” Rahim had obviously been drained by what he had just been through. The 

sweat was pouring down his face and he was breathing heavily, fighting against the 

fever. Now Alex saw that one of his legs was bleeding. It was probably bandaged 

underneath his pants, but the blood was seeping through. He sat down and began to 

untie his shoelaces. He was wearing heavy combat boots. 

“How safe are we here?” Alex asked. 

“Not safe. The Kikuyu will be able to track us. Maybe McCain will think you are 

dead. But he is already nervous. He will not take any chances.” 

“You‟re hurt.” Alex handed back the water bottle. “What can I do to help you?” 

“I was unlucky.” Rahim drank a second time. “I parachuted in last night.” Alex 

remembered hearing a plane. It had passed over the safari lodge, flying close to 

the ground. “I landed badly in a thornbush and cut my leg open. The wound has 

become infected. But I have taken antibiotics and I will recover. There is nothing 

you can do.” 

“You‟ve told me your name, but you haven‟t said why you‟re here.” Rahim didn‟t 

reply, but Alex had already worked it out for himself. “You were at Kilmore Castle, 

so you must be interested in McCain.” 

Rahim nodded. 

“Who are you working for?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Rahim took a deep breath and shifted his position. The movement caused him pain. 

“I know who you are,” he said. “You are Alex Rider. You are a part-time operative 

working with the Special Operations Division of MI6. They are looking for you. 

They have put out the call to every intelligence department, including mine.” 

“But you didn‟t come here looking for me.” 

“I did not expect to find you here, Alex.” Rahim smiled, and at that moment Alex 

saw how very young he was, perhaps only twenty-three or -four. There might be 

less than ten years between them. “I was sent here for one reason only. It was the 

same reason that I was sent to Kilmore Castle, and this is now the second time you 

have got in my way. I am here to kill Desmond McCain.” 

“Why?” There were so many questions Alex wanted to ask, and he was aware of 

time ticking away. The tribesmen could come looking for them at any time. But at 

least the rifle might put the odds more on their side. 

Rahim took a plastic bottle out of his pocket. “I will tell you,” he said. He tipped 

two pills into the palm of his hand and swallowed them dry. He grimaced. “I am a 

spy like you, Alex. I belong to a division of the Indian secret service called RAW. 

It stands for Research and Analysis Wing, and it deals in counterterrorism, foreign 

affairs, and covert action. My own department goes further than that. Our 

activities often come under a single word. Revenge.” 

“This is about the nuclear power station,” Alex said. “The one that McCain tried to 

destroy.” 

Rahim nodded. “The Jowada facility in Chennai. We know that he bribed a man by 

the name of Ravi Chandra to carry a device into the building. It was a lamentable 

lapse in security, but the security at Jowada was in general a disgrace. 

Unfortunately, we were unable to question Chandra because he died in the initial 

explosion. McCain took a great deal of care. There were a number of connections 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

between him and the man who paid Chandra, but we investigated, and in the end we 

found a link with First Aid. Suddenly everything made sense. Even so, we cannot 

prove the case against McCain, nor do we need to. Sometimes RAW deals with its 

enemies in a simpler and more direct way. I was sent to Scotland to kill him there, 

and I was checking out the castle when your car went off the road and into the 

lake. That was fortunate for you. And it is even more fortunate that I should be 

here a second time. That business with the crocodiles . . .” Rahim gave Alex the 

ghost of a smile. “I have never seen anything like that.” 

“How were you going to kill him?” Alex asked. 

“I was planning to shoot him, but as I discovered last night, that will not be as easy 

as I thought. He is well protected by his Kikuyus. However, I have come well 

prepared. I can also blow up his plane.” 

“You have plastic explosive?” 

“Of course.” Rahim gestured at his backpack. “McCain flies a four-seater 172 

Skyhawk.” 

Alex nodded grimly. “I know. That‟s what brought me here.” 

“I will blow it up in midair. In a way, that is the better option. It is part of my brief 

that RAW should not be seen to have been involved. A bomb, I think, will be more 

anonymous than a bullet casing.” 

“I‟m afraid you‟re going to have to think again, Rahim.” Alex went over to the Indian 

agent and sat down next to him. His thoughts had already raced ahead. “I have to 

contact MI6,” he said. 

“You want to let them know you are safe.” 

“More than that. Do you have a radio?” 

“I have a laptop equipped with a demodulator. It will produce a baseband output 

that can be picked up by satellite. Do you have an address?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“No.” It only occurred to Alex now. Even after all the missions he had undertaken 

for MI6, they had never given him an e-mail address or a telephone number. On the 

other hand, he‟d been supplied with gadgets. What had happened to the pocket 

calculator with the built-in communications system? It was a shame it hadn‟t been 

in his pocket when he was snatched. 

“It‟s not a problem,” Rahim said. “We can contact the Intelligence Bureau in New 

Delhi. They will pass on any message to Liverpool Street. What is it you want to 

say?” 

Quickly, Alex told Rahim everything that he had learned from Desmond McCain the 

night before . . . the genetically modified wheat crop, the spores, the plan to poison 

half the continent. “We have less time than you thought,” he said. “And killing 

McCain right now isn‟t going to do anyone any good. We have to go up to the Simba 

Valley. It‟s only two miles from here.” 

Rahim shook his head. “I‟m sorry, Alex. I don‟t have enough explosive to blow up an 

entire wheat field.” 

“That‟s not my idea.” Alex was remembering what McCain had told him, and what he 

had seen for himself when he was flown in. “There‟s a place called the Simba Dam,” 

he explained. “It‟s on the edge of a big lake. If we could blow it up, we could flood 

the valley. We could put the whole crop underwater before it has a chance to do 

any harm. But we have to do it today. Right now. McCain said that the spores would 

start working at sunset. It must be about midday now.” 

“Alex, I know this dam,” Rahim said. “I studied the whole area before I 

parachuted. It is what is known as a double curvature arch dam . . . which is to say 

that it curves against the side of the valley and also against the valley floor, 

making it doubly strong. I have just one kilogram of plastic explosive. That would 

not be nearly enough even to make a crack in the wall.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“There must be some sort of pipe or valve—” 

“There will be a whole series of pipes carrying the water down the hill. Simba Dam 

is used for irrigation purposes, but there are also two hydroelectric turbines.” 

Alex was impressed. Rahim had clearly done his homework. “It might be possible to 

attack the bottom outlet valve or the scour valve that is next to it. Either of them 

would release enormous amounts of water.” He shook his head. “But it cannot be 

done.” 

“Why not?” 

“Because I cannot do it. My leg is infected. I was barely able to limp to the river. 

The Simba Dam is three miles from here.” 

“I could go on my own.” 

“That I will not allow.” 

Alex thought for a minute. “You parachuted in,” he said. “How were you planning to 

leave?” 

“McCain has a crop duster as well as the Skyhawk. I imagine he used it to spread 

this spore of his that you described? I can fly. I was intending to steal it.” 

“Then you could fly me to the dam?” 

“There is nowhere to land. I might be able to slow the plane to as little as thirty-

five miles per hour and fly low over the water to allow you to jump, but even so, the 

chances are high that you would be killed.” 

For a moment, Alex lost his temper. “We can‟t just sit back and do nothing!” 

“No, Alex. We can contact the Intelligence Bureau as I have already suggested. 

They will, in turn, speak to the British authorities. Together they will know what to 

do.” Rahim went on quickly, before Alex could interrupt him. “I have my 

instructions. I am here to kill McCain. I was acting improperly when I decided to 

rescue you, and I can assure you my superiors will not be amused when I make my 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

report.” He broke off. He was sweating again and his eyes were unfocused. Alex 

could almost see the disease attacking his system. “My laptop . . .” Rahim pointed at 

the backpack. He was too weak to go over himself. 

Alex stood up. He went over to the backpack and opened. Everything was packed 

very neatly inside. There was a laptop computer, maps, a compass, ammunition for 

the Dragunov, medical supplies, spare clothes, and food. Much of the space was 

taken up by a silver box about the size of a car battery with two switches and a 

clock set behind glass. Alex knew at once what it was. Rahim must have been 

planning to conceal it in the Skyhawk‟s hold. 

“Bring it to me,” Rahim said. 

Alex left the bomb and carried the computer over. Rahim opened it, booted it up, 

and then handed it across. “It will be easier if you do it,” he said. “But I suggest 

you don‟t take too long. We will have to move from this place before the Kikuyu 

come looking for us, and I need to break into the Cessna and prepare it for its last 

flight.” 

Alex crouched down. It felt weird to be tapping away at a keyboard, sitting in the 

dust in the middle of the African bush. He also wondered what the British or the 

Indian authorities would be able to do. Another six hours and it might be too late. 

He briefly outlined the location of the valley, the crop that McCain was growing 

there, his plan to bring famine and disease to Kenya. Finally, he added a PS. 

  

Please let Jack Starbright know where I am  

and tell her I’m all right. 

  

If there was one good thing to come out of all this, at least Jack would know that 

he hadn‟t been hurt. He quickly read the page over and pressed Send. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He looked up. Rahim had slumped forward. Alex went over and examined him. The 

RAW agent wasn‟t exactly asleep. He was unconscious, breathing heavily. He had 

been knocked out—either by the fever or by the medicine he had been taking to 

fight it. Alex eased him gently to the ground, then looked back in the direction of 

the lodge. Everything was silent in the bush as even the animals slept in the midday 

sun. It was very hot, but at least Rahim was tucked away in the shade of the 

sausage tree. 

What would MI6 do when they received the news? 

Alex had visions of Alan Blunt and Mrs. Jones conferring with the appropriate 

ministers at Downing Street. A new government had recently been voted in. They 

probably wouldn‟t even know he existed, so they would have to be persuaded he was 

reliable, that his information was accurate. And then they would have to make a 

decision . . . but what exactly were their options? They could send in troops with 

flamethrowers, but that might take days. In fact, Alex couldn‟t even be certain 

that the Indian secret service would pass the message on in time. After all, they 

had their own agenda. They simply wanted McCain dead. 

He didn‟t like it, but he knew what he had to do. He took the map out of Rahim‟s 

backpack and studied it. Simba River Camp was clearly marked—and there was the 

track that he had seen from the air. It led all the way to the dam, rising up the 

side of the valley. He could follow the river for the first mile and then cut across 

the countryside using the compass. It wouldn‟t be too difficult to pick up the track. 

There was electricity up there. He had seen one of the pylons. If he could find it 

again, it would lead him to the dam. 

Finally, Alex examined the bomb. It wasn‟t very complicated either. All he would 

have to do is set the timer, which operated like an ordinary alarm clock, then 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

activate it by throwing a single switch. What was it that Rahim had told him? He 

had to locate one of the two main valves. That was where he would place the bomb. 

Alex took out the medicine, then put on the backpack and tightened the straps. He 

felt bad just walking out on Rahim, particularly after the agent had just saved his 

life. But at least he could make sure that he wasn‟t found by the Kikuyu tribemen. 

He would follow the path back to the river where he had first been taken. He 

would do his best to cover his tracks, and then he would set off in another 

direction, making sure that he disturbed the vegetation as much as possible. If 

McCain did realize that Beckett was missing and sent his men after him, they would 

follow the new path. Rahim would be left alone and Alex had no doubt that, once he 

woke up, he would be able to look after himself. 

The decision was made. Alex looked up at the sky. The sun was directly overhead, 

beating down on him. It was midday. Before long it would begin its journey down. 

Alex took a swig out of the water bottle and set off. Two miles in this unfamiliar 

countryside would take him as many hours. He just hoped he wasn‟t already too 

late. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

22 

 

MARGIN OF ERROR 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

ONE O ‟CLOCK IN THE AFTERNOON, London time. 

The navy blue Jaguar XJ6 drove around Trafalgar Square and then headed down 

Whitehall, in the direction of Big Ben and the Houses of Parliament. The weather 

forecasters had been predicting snow, but so far it had held back. Even so, it was a 

hard, cold day, with the wind skittering along the sidewalks. Inside the car, the 

heat had been turned up and the windows were tinted. Both of these helped keep 

the winter at bay. 

The Jaguar passed the famous Banqueting House, where the first King Charles had 

lost his head, and turned onto Downing Street. The black steel gates opened 

automatically to admit it. It stopped outside Number Ten and two people, a man 

and a woman, got out. As always, there was a handful of news reporters in the 

street, making their broadcasts against the backdrop of the most famous door in 

the world, but none of them noticed the two new arrivals, and if they had, it would 

have been extremely unlikely that they would have recognized them. Alan Blunt and 

Mrs. Jones had never been photographed. Their names didn‟t appear on any 

government profiles. 

Neither of them needed to knock. The door swung open as they approached and 

they passed into the brightly colored entrance hall with a surprisingly long corridor 

stretching out in front of them. They made no sound at all as they walked along the 

plush carpets, beneath the chandeliers, toward the far staircase. As usual, the 

walls were lined with paintings that had been borrowed from a central government 

reserve. They were by British artists, most of them modern and rather bland. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Blunt examined them as he continued forward, not because he was interested in 

art—he wasn‟t—but because they might give him some insight into the mind of the 

man who had chosen them. There was a new prime minister in Downing Street. He 

had been voted in just a month before, And what did the paintings say about him? 

He liked the countryside, fox hunting, and windmills. His favorite color was blue. 

Of course, Blunt already knew everything about the new man—from the state of 

his marriage (happy) to the last payment he had made on his credit card (£97.60 

for a meal at The Ivy). There wasn‟t a single prime minister in England who hadn‟t 

been thoroughly checked by MI6: their families, their friends and associates, what 

websites they liked to visit, where they took their vacations, how much money they 

spent every week. There was always a chance that the information might reveal a 

security risk or something that the prime minister didn‟t want anyone to know. 

The two of them reached the staircase and began to climb up to the first floor, 

passing the painted portraits and photographs of past prime ministers, spaced out 

at regular intervals. There was a man in a suit waiting at the top, gesturing toward 

an office. The building was full of young men in suits, some of them working for 

Blunt, although they probably didn‟t know it. Blunt and Mrs. Jones went into the 

office and there was the prime minister, waiting with two advisers, sitting behind a 

desk. 

“Mr. Blunt . . . please, take a seat.” 

The prime minister wasn‟t happy, and it showed. Like all politicians, he didn‟t 

entirely trust his spy masters and he certainly didn‟t want one sitting opposite him 

now. It wasn‟t fair. He hadn‟t been in power very long. It was certainly too soon for 

his first international crisis. There were two men sitting with him, one on each side. 

They were trying to look relaxed, as if they just happened to be passing and had 

decided to pop in for the meeting. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I don‟t think you‟ve met Simon Ellis,” the prime minister said, nodding at the fair-

haired, rather plump man on his left. “And this is Charles Blackmore.” The other 

man was also young, though with prematurely gray hair. “I thought it might be 

helpful if they joined us.” 

Blunt hadn‟t met either of them, but of course he knew everything about them. 

They had both been at Winchester College with the prime minister. Ellis was now a 

junior civil servant in the Treasury. Blackmore had left a career in television to 

become director of strategy and communications. The two men loathed each other. 

The prime minister didn‟t know this. They were also loathed by almost everyone 

else. 

“Well . . . ,” the prime minister began. He licked his lips. “I‟ve read your report on 

the situation in Kenya and it does seem to be very alarming. But the first question 

I really do have to ask you is—why did your agent feel it necessary to send his 

information via the Indian secret service?” 

“I‟m afraid I can‟t answer that,” Blunt replied. “We only know what you know, Prime 

Minister. It‟s all in the file. Our agent was kidnapped and smuggled out of the 

country against his will. Somehow he must have managed to break free and fell in 

with an agent from RAW.” 

“Research and Analysis Wing,” Blackmore muttered helpfully. 

“We have no idea what RAW was doing in Kenya, and so far they‟ve refused to tell 

us. I‟m afraid foreign intelligence agencies are always overcautious when it comes 

to protecting their own. But if I may say so, Prime Minister, it‟s completely 

irrelevant. What matters is the report itself and the very serious threat it 

contains.” 

The prime minister picked up a sheet of paper that had been lying in front of him. 

“This was sent by e-mail,” he said. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

“Yes.” 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“And it suggests that this man, Desmond McCain, is engaged in a plot to poison the 

wheat crop in Kenya for his own financial gain.” 

Blunt blinked heavily. “I‟m glad you had time to read it,” he muttered. 

The prime minister ignored the rudeness. He put the paper down. “What makes you 

believe this information is reliable?” he asked. 

“We have absolutely no reason to doubt it.” 

“And yet I understand that this agent of yours, the one who sent the report—

which, incidentally, has no fewer than three spelling mistakes—is only fourteen 

years old.” 

There was a long pause. The two advisers glanced at the prime minister, urging him 

on. 

“Alex Rider. Is that his name?” the prime minister asked. 

“He‟s never let us down in the past,” Mrs. Jones cut in. She was carrying a slim 

leather case, which she opened. She took out a thin file marked TOP SECRET in 

red letters and handed it across. “These are the details of just four of the 

assignments he‟s undertaken on our behalf,” she continued. “The most recent of 

them was in Australia.” 

“Shouldn‟t he be in school?” 

“He called in sick.” 

“Let me have a look . . .” The prime minister opened the file and read it in silence. 

“You certainly seem to have a very high opinion of him,” he remarked. “And let‟s say 

for the sake of argument that it‟s justified. Let‟s assume that everything that he 

has told you is true—” 

“Then by four o‟clock this evening, the wheat field will have been activated,” Blunt 

said. In fact, Alex‟s e-mail had crossed two time zones. He had sent it at midday. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

It had arrived in New Delhi at half past two, Indian time. They had kept it for 

three hours before they had sent it to MI6 where it arrived at noon, UK time. Four 

o‟clock in England would be seven o‟clock in Kenya, and sunset. They had less than 

three hours in which to act. “The wheat will have been turned into a million doses 

of ricin,” Blunt went on. “At the same time, the spores that McCain sprayed onto 

the field will take off and begin to spread across the rest of Kenya. It will settle 

on the next field and then the one after that. It‟s impossible to say how many 

millions of seeds Greenfields has supplied over the past five years. All we know for 

sure is that within three months, the entire country will be poisoned.” 

“We can let McCain know we‟re onto him,” Ellis said. “There‟s not going to be any 

charity appeal. Once he knows that, there‟ll be no point in going ahead.” 

“I agree.” Blackmore nodded his head, secretly annoyed that he hadn‟t spoken 

first. 

“We don‟t have any way to contact McCain, short of parachuting into Simba River 

Camp,” Blunt replied. “And anyway, we‟re too late. There‟s a biological clock that‟s 

already ticking. The damage has been done.” 

“So what do you suggest?” 

“We need to speak to the Kenyan government and send in troops. The field has to 

be neutralized, probably with flamethrowers. And we also have to find Alex Rider. 

We‟ve heard nothing more from him. I want to know he‟s safe.” 

Although she didn‟t show it, Mrs. Jones was surprised. It was the first time she 

had ever heard Blunt show any concern for Alex. Even when he had been shot, 

Blunt‟s main concern had been keeping the story out of the newspapers. 

“I‟m not sure that‟s possible, Mr. Blunt.” The prime minister shifted uncomfortably 

in his seat. “It might be a bit awkward explaining to the Kenyan authorities that a 

British citizen has just launched a biochemical attack on their country . . . and let‟s 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

not forget that Greenfields actually receives government funding! Of course, it 

wasn‟t my government that agreed to it, but even so, the political fallout could be 

appalling. Frankly, the less said the better. And I definitely think we ought to 

handle the situation ourselves.” 

“I have an SAS task force on standby,” Blunt said. 

“It would still take too long to fly them to Africa,” Blackmore said. He glanced at 

the prime minister, waiting for permission to continue. The prime minister nodded. 

“But in my view, we can do better than that,” he said. “We have an RAF Phantom 

squadron in Akrotiri, Cyprus. They‟re already fueling. They can be in the air in half 

an hour.” 

“And what do you intend to do with them?” Blunt asked. 

“It‟s very simple, Mr. Blunt. We‟re going to bomb the entire wheat field. After all, 

thanks to your agent, we know exactly where it is.” 

“But won‟t the bombs do McCain‟s work for him? You‟ll actually blow the spores into 

the air. You‟ll spread them all over Africa.” 

“We don‟t believe so. The Phantoms will be carrying AGM-65 Maverick air-to-

surface tactical missiles with infrared tracking. They‟ll be able to pinpoint the 

target exactly. Each plane has six missiles. Each missile contains eighty-six pounds 

of high explosive. The advice we‟ve been given is that there‟s a 99.5 percent 

probability that every single one of the spores will be destroyed in the firestorm.” 

“That still leaves room for error,” Blunt said. 

“And what about Alex?” Mrs. Jones added. “For all we know, he could still be in the 

area. Are we going to launch a missile strike against him too?” 

“I don‟t think we have any choice,” Ellis said. He reached down and picked a speck 

of dust off his tie. “There‟s no reason to believe he‟s anywhere near the target 

area.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

“And if he is?” 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“I‟m sure you‟d agree that we can‟t allow one life to get in the way. Not when we‟re 

trying to save thousands.” 

There was a brief silence. The prime minister was looking more uncomfortable than 

ever. But then he spoke again. “I think we‟ve come to a unanimous decision, Mr. 

Blunt.” 

“You certainly have,” Blunt muttered. 

“And before you leave, there is one thing I do have to ask you. Exactly how many 

agents do you have who are underage . . . which is to say, sixteen years old or 

younger?” 

“We have only one,” Blunt replied. “There is only one Alex Rider.” 

“I‟m very glad to hear it.” The prime minister looked apologetic. “To be honest, I 

was rather horrified to discover that the British secret service would even 

consider employing a minor. I can see from his file that he‟s been tremendously 

useful to you and he certainly deserves our gratitude. But putting children into 

danger, no matter how compelling the reason . . . well, I‟m not sure the public would 

stand for it. In my view, recruiting him in the first place was a serious error of 

judgment.” 

“Well, if your Phantom jets manage to kill him, that won‟t be a problem anymore, 

will it,” Blunt said. He was speaking evenly and without emotion, but it was the 

nearest Mrs. Jones had ever seen him come to losing his temper. 

“I hope it won‟t come to that, Mr. Blunt. But whatever happens, I want to make it 

clear that my government will not tolerate this sort of thing again. This is Alex‟s 

last assignment, do you understand me? I want him back at school.” 

The meeting was over. Blunt and Mrs. Jones stood up and walked out of the room, 

back down the stairs, and out into the street where their car was waiting for them. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“The man is an idiot,” Blunt snapped as they swept through the gates at the end of 

Downing Street. “He talks about a 0.5 percent margin of error. But I spoke to 

Redwing, and she thinks it‟s much higher. These missiles of his won‟t kill the 

disease. They‟ll spread it . . . farther and faster than anyone could imagine.” 

“What about Alex?” Mrs. Jones asked. 

“I‟ll talk to RAW the moment we get back. But their man has gone silent. Nobody 

knows what‟s happening in Kenya.” He glanced briefly out of the window as they 

turned into Whitehall. “It looks as if, once again, Alex Rider is on his own.” 

  

“Where did you find this?” 

Desmond McCain was sitting behind the folding table that he used as a workplace in 

his own private cabin at Simba River Camp. The room was similar to the one in 

which Alex had been kept, except that there was no bed and the walls were 

decorated with photographs of the office buildings that McCain had once 

developed in the east end of London. Although the fan had been turned to full 

speed, the air was still hot and sluggish. There was sweat on his head and on his 

face. It was seeping through the shoulders of his jacket. 

He was looking at a leather shoe, one he recognized. The last time he had seen it, it 

had been on Myra Beckett‟s foot. In fact, it still was. The foot, bitten off just 

above the ankle, was still inside. 

“It was beside the river, sir.” 

Njenga was also in the room, standing with his legs apart and his hands behind his 

back. He had become the leader of the dozen men working for McCain. The rest of 

them spoke only Bantu, but he had been to school in Nairobi and spoke fluent 

English. McCain took one last look at all that remained of his fiancée. A single tear 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

stole out of his eye and crept down his cheek. He wiped it away with the back of 

his hand. 

Also on the table was a scrap of material, part of Alex‟s shirt. McCain examined it. 

“What about this?” he asked. 

“It was in the same place.” 

“By the river.” 

“Yes, sir.” 

McCain held the shirt in his huge hands, tugging at it with his fingers. It had been 

more than two hours since he had noticed that Myra was missing and had sent out 

his men to find her. They had come back with this. What could possibly have 

happened? He had left her standing on the observation platform, waiting for the 

child to come to the end of his strength and to fall as, inevitably, he must. There 

was no way that Alex Rider would have been able to reach her. Nor could he have 

escaped. It had all been too carefully arranged. And yet there was something . . . 

“There is no blood on this shirt,” he said. “We‟ve been tricked. Somehow, the child 

got away.” 

Njenga said nothing. The rule here was to speak only when it was essential. 

“He can‟t have gone far, even with a two-hour start. He has nowhere to go. He 

won‟t have crossed the river, not knowing what‟s in it. So it should be a simple 

matter to track him down.” McCain had come to a decision. “I want you to take the 

men—all of them—and set off after him. I‟m not asking anything clever. I want you 

to bring him back to me alive if you possibly can. I would like to have the pleasure 

of finishing this once and for all. But if you think he‟s going to get away, then kill 

him and bring me back his head. Do you understand? This time, I want to be sure.” 

“Yes, sir.” Njenga showed no concern about killing and decapitating a child. All that 

mattered to him was the money that would come to him at the end of the month. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Go now. Don‟t come back until the job is done.” 

A few minutes later they all left, twelve men carrying a variety of weapons, 

including spears, knives, and machetes. Half of them had guns. Njenga himself 

carried a German-manufactured Sauer 202 bolt-action hunting rifle equipped with 

a Zeiss Conquest scope. He knew he could shoot the eye of an antelope out at two 

hundred yards. He had done so many times. 

They found two tracks at the river. The first one went into the bush and came 

back again. The second, which was much clearer, headed off toward the north. This 

was the path they chose. Alex Rider had a two-hour start, but they were Kikuyu 

tribesmen. They were taller, faster, and stronger than him. They knew the land. 

They set off at a fast run, dodging through the undergrowth, confident that they‟d 

catch up with him in no time at all. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

23 

 

SIMBA DAM 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

THE BIRDS PERCHED HIGH UP in the camphor tree were definitely vultures. The 

shape was unmistakable—the long necks and the bald heads—and the way they sat, 

hunched up and still. There were about ten of them, ranged across the branches, 

black against the afternoon sky. But the question Alex had to ask himself was: 

Were they waiting for him? 

He had no idea how long he had been running for, but he knew he couldn‟t go on 

much longer. He was dehydrated and close to exhaustion, his arms covered in 

scratches, his face burned by the African sun. The bits of his school uniform that 

he was still wearing couldn‟t have been less well suited to this sort of terrain. The 

black polyester pants trapped the heat, and his lace-up dress shoes had caused him 

to slip twice. Each time he had come crashing down to the ground, he had wearily 

reminded himself that there was a bomb strapped to his back. Not that he could 

have forgotten it. The weight of Rahim‟s backpack was dragging him down, the 

straps cutting into his shoulders. Well, if the bomb went off, the vultures would 

have their feast. It would just come in snack-sized pieces. 

The journey should have been simple. After all, he had seen where he had to go 

from the air. Unfortunately, the landscape looked very different at ground level 

when he was stuck in the middle of it. The sudden rising hills, the thick vegetation, 

the spiky shrubs that forced him to turn another way . . . all these had been 

flattened out when he was in the Piper Cub. The bush had swallowed him up. The 

dam, the pylons, the track had all disappeared. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He had to rely on the map and his own sense of direction. To start with, he had 

kept the river on his right—near enough to glimpse the water through the trees 

but not so close as to attract the attention of whatever might be lurking within it. 

That was his greatest fear. He was in the middle of a killing field—and he wasn‟t 

being escorted around like a tourist in a four-by-four. It had been midday when he 

set out and most of the animals would have been asleep, but the sun was already 

beginning to cool and very soon they would awaken and begin their ceaseless search 

for food. Was he prey? He could imagine his scent creeping out. All around him, 

invisible eyes could be watching his progress, already measuring the distance. He 

had seen elephants, monkeys, and, of course, crocodiles. What other horrors might 

be waiting for him around the next corner if he was unlucky? There could be lions 

or cheetahs. He had thought of taking the Dragunov sniper rifle or searching 

Rahim‟s pockets for other weapons, but in the end he had decided against it. Rahim 

might need them when he recovered consciousness. Now he wished he hadn‟t been 

so generous. 

After about half a mile, he had turned away from the river, heading in what he 

hoped would be the direction of the dam—and it was then that his progress 

became harder. This time it was the map that was deceiving him. It hadn‟t showed 

that the ground sloped steeply uphill, although he should have worked it out for 

himself. Rahim had told him that the water held back by the Simba Dam flowed 

through two hydroelectric turbines. Since water only flows downhill, it was fairly 

obvious that he would have to climb. 

It was hard work, weighed down in the hot sun. And the African landscape was 

huge. He knew he had only two miles to cover, but somehow the distances seemed 

to have been magnified so that even a shrub or a tree right in front of him always 

took too long to reach. Worse still, after leaving the river behind him, Alex had 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

lost all sense of direction. The colors were too muted: the pale greens and browns, 

the faint streaks of yellow and orange. You could hide a herd of elephants here and 

not see them. There was nowhere for the eye to focus. There were no people, no 

houses, nothing that looked like a pathway or a road. This was the world as it must 

have been long ago, before man began to shape it to his needs. Alex felt like an 

intruder. And he was utterly lost. 

But as long as he was climbing uphill, he had to be going the right way. He stopped 

and took out Rahim‟s water bottle. He had already drunk from it three times, and 

he had tried to ration himself, but even so, he was surprised to find it almost 

empty. He finished the last drops and slung the empty container into the bush. Let 

the Kikuyu tribesmen pick it up. Alex had no doubt that they were already closing 

in behind him. 

The bush ahead suddenly parted. Alex froze. It was an animal of some sort, small 

and dark, hidden by the long grass. And it was headed toward him. For a moment he 

felt the same uncontrollable terror that McCain had inflicted on him at the 

crocodile pit. If this was a lion, then it was all over. But then he relaxed. The 

animal was a warthog. For a moment it stared at him with its small, brutish eyes. 

Its upturned nose sniffed the air, and Alex could imagine it asking itself the same 

question it must ask every day. Food? Then it made its decision. This creature was 

too big and probably wouldn‟t taste very nice. It turned around and fled the way it 

had come. 

Alex looked back. What time was it? There was a mountain ridge over to the west, 

lost in the heat haze like a strip of gray silk. The sun was sinking slowly behind it 

and there was already a faint moon visible against the clear blue sky. A meeting 

place of night and day. Alex wiped a grimy hand over his face. A mosquito whined in 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

his ear. He wondered if Rahim had woken up yet. What would the Indian agent do 

when he discovered he was alone? 

A movement caught his eye. At first, Alex thought he had imagined it—but there it 

was again. An animal? No. About a dozen men were making their way toward him. 

They were still at least half a mile away, far down at the bottom of the slope that 

Alex had been climbing. They were spread out in a line and Alex could just make out 

their black faces, the combat clothes they were wearing, and the weapons they 

carried or had strapped to their backs. He knew exactly who they were. He also 

knew that if he had seen them, they had seen him. If he stayed where he was, they 

would be with him in less than fifteen minutes. 

Forcing himself on, he broke into a run. There was a thicket of trees to one side 

and he made for it, wondering if he might be able to lose himself among the trunks 

and branches. But it was a foolish hope. Alex knew that McCain‟s men must have 

been tracking him from the start and that a single broken blade of grass or a 

fallen leaf would have been like a flashing neon sign for them. Now it was just a 

question of speed. Could he reach the dam before they caught up with him? Could 

he detonate the bomb? Alex had no doubt that he was going to be captured and 

killed. But he would die more happily if he knew that he had beaten McCain. 

The wood ended as suddenly as it had begun. On the other side was a field and the 

first man-made object that he had seen since he set out . . . the remains of a low 

wooden fence. He leapt over it and continued running, aware that he was 

surrounded by a very different sort of vegetation. It was wheat! Incredibly, he 

had actually found his way to McCain‟s wheat field. So the dam must be directly 

ahead of him. He still couldn‟t see it, but he knew it was there. If he just continued 

forward he would have to come upon it. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Suddenly, he was racing through the stalks. He could feel it scratching at his 

ankles and his hands. It surrounded him. And with a jolt of horror he wondered if 

it had switched yet, if the spores had done their work. If so, he was running 

through a vast field of poison. Each one of these bright yellow blades could be the 

death of him. The very air he breathed could be full of ricin. Grimly, Alex kept his 

lips tightly shut and his arms held high. It seemed incredible to him that McCain 

could have done this: taken something as natural, as universal as a wheat field and 

turned it into something deadly. 

He glanced back. There was no sign of his followers. Seeing them had given him new 

speed and determination. Over to one side he saw the electricity pylon that he had 

spotted before, or one identical to it—not steel, but wood, and only four or five 

yards high. It was still a quarter of a mile away, but he made for it. The wires 

would lead to the turbines and the turbines had to be somewhere beneath the dam. 

He tried to remember on which side he had seen the track. That would be the 

fastest way forward. Was it possible that Njenga had come after him in the Land 

Rover? No. Alex would have heard the engine by now. 

The wheat, waves and waves of it, crunched beneath his feet as he drove his way 

through it. He liked the sound that it made. He wanted to crush as much of it as he 

could, but the field seemed to go on forever, trapped between the two rock faces 

that rose up on each side. 

Where was the dam? He should have been able to see it by now. 

The wheat suddenly ended—so abruptly that it was as if Alex had fallen from one 

world to another. He was on the track! There it was, right underneath him. So how 

far did he have to go? How much farther could he go? He glanced back. There was 

still no sign of the Kikuyu tribesmen, but the wheat would cause them no problems. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

In fact, the trackers would have a field day. Alex would have left a highway for 

them to follow. He had to keep up his pace. They would surely have doubled theirs. 

The track had once been covered with asphalt, but it was full of potholes now, with 

weeds and wild grass sprouting through. Alex guessed it would be used both by the 

farmers coming up to harvest the wheat and by technicians working on the 

hydroelectrics. He could make out tire tracks and hoofprints. It was an easier 

surface for running, but he was still going uphill and his mouth was dry. He resisted 

the temptation to look back. He had no time to waste. His muscles were taut and 

his whole body was tingling with the anticipation of a knife or a bullet in his back. 

And then the track turned a corner and there, ahead of him, was the Simba Dam. 

It was completely bizarre and out of place. That was Alex‟s first thought. This 

huge gray wall had been constructed in the middle of all this unspoiled nature, and 

it had no right to be there. It wasn‟t exactly ugly. Indeed, the great curve, 

stretching from one side of the valley to the other, had a certain gracefulness. 

Beaten by the sun, the concrete had faded so that it blended in with the rocks 

that surrounded it. But it was still a scar. In a strange way, it reminded him of 

what had happened to McCain‟s face. The dam cut the landscape in two, and the 

two halves didn‟t quite meet. 

Alex stumbled to a halt and stood there panting, his entire body covered in sweat. 

He desperately needed a drink. He wished now he had taken more care with his 

water supply. 

There was no sign of the lake from where he was standing at the very foot of the 

dam, surrounded by discarded pieces of cement and broken rocks that must have 

been blasted during the construction. The surface of the water had to be about 

ninety feet above him and, of course, on the other side. He could see enormous 

slots in the wall, oversized letter boxes with what looked like metal gates cutting 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

them in half. Presumably these could be raised or lowered to allow the water to 

spill through. Alex tried to imagine the amount of pressure that must be pushing 

against the wall itself, the tons and tons of water being held back. There was 

nobody here. Somewhere—perhaps in Nairobi—someone would press a button and a 

sluice would open. And then some of the water—just a few million gallons—would 

rush down a series of hidden pipes to the turbines, where its energy would be 

siphoned off to provide electricity before it was finally released to feed the crops. 

Suddenly the bomb he was carrying felt very small. As he followed the track to its 

end, the Simba Dam loomed over him, much bigger and more complicated than 

anything he had imagined. It curved in two directions, forming a letter C around 

him but also slanting out over his head, away from the water. What had Rahim 

called it? A double curvature arch dam. Now that he was here, it was easier to 

understand what that meant. 

Two drainage slipways ran up on either side. These were basically curving roads 

running up the side of the hill, though so steeply that no car would be able to make 

the journey. Alex guessed that they had something to do with the water, which 

could be directed down them and into the valley if there happened to be heavy 

rainfall and the threat of a flood. Two concrete staircases had been built next to 

them, one for each slipway, with about a hundred steps leading up to the top. There 

was one other way up, a single ladder clinging to the face of the dam, leading to 

two inspection platforms, one above the other, and finally to the lip of the dam 

itself. The ladder was dangerous because it wasn‟t quite vertical. Following the 

curve of the wall, it slanted outward. It was also narrow, steep, and covered in 

rust. 

Alex took this all in, then turned his attention to a construction directly in front of 

him. It looked like something out of the Second World War . . . a solid concrete 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

bunker with an entrance and three barred windows. A pair of fat steel pipes jutted 

out, pointing at him like the cannons of two tanks that might have been parked next 

to each other inside. Both of them were capped, making them look like oversized 

industrial oil cans. They were connected to the dam by hydraulic steel claws with a 

network of smaller pipes, wires, and taps around them. The concrete underneath 

them was stained. It had recently been wet. 

Alex knew that he was looking at the two valves that Rahim had described. His 

targets. He took one quick look back over his shoulder, then hurried forward. He 

had perhaps five minutes to position the explosive before the Kikuyus arrived. Even 

as he ran, he wriggled out of the backpack and opened it. The concrete building had 

a sort of entrance, a narrow slit that led into an inner chamber with more pipes and 

machinery. While he was in here, Alex would be out of sight. Surely he couldn‟t 

have left a trail on the broken rock and other debris in front of the dam. With a 

bit of luck, the trackers wouldn‟t be able to find him . . . until it was too late. 

He had the bomb in his hands. It couldn‟t have been more old-fashioned or easier 

to understand. That was what made terrorism all the more frightening—the fact 

that it relied on such simple devices. The glass window in front of the clock face 

opened and Alex was able to take the single hand and move it as many minutes as 

he wanted, up to sixty. He made a quick calculation. It would take him about two 

minutes to climb up to the top of the dam, using one of the staircases beside the 

slipways. Once he was there, he would be safe from the torrent of water. But what 

about the Kikuyus? Suddenly, Alex had an idea. 

He turned the hand of the clock to the figure 5, then pressed the two switches. A 

green light came on and the clock began to tick. So it was done. Alex looked around 

him. It didn‟t matter which valve he chose. He just had to hope that the 

explosion—contained within the concrete walls—would be strong enough to rupture 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

them both. He placed the bomb on top of one of the pipes, wedging it against the 

ceiling. Now to get away. 

He slithered out of the opening and stopped in dismay. He saw three Kikuyu men 

just a short distance ahead of him. They had almost reached the end of the track 

and were gazing at the dam as if it had deliberately chosen to block their path. 

There was no more than fifty yards between them. They saw Alex at once. One of 

them called out. The other threw his spear. It fell short. None of them seemed to 

have guns. 

Alex began to run. He headed for the nearest slipway, but he hadn‟t even begun to 

climb when another of McCain‟s men appeared at the top, pointed down, and 

shouted. Alex realized what had happened. The dozen tribesmen had arrived at the 

dam and, as he had hoped, they had lost his track. So they had separated. They 

were all around him now, coming at him from all sides. 

And he had made a terrible miscalculation. 

There were just four and a half minutes until the bomb would go off. He didn‟t 

have time to go back into the bunker and change the time of the detonation . . . 

he‟d be trapping himself and it would only draw attention to what he had done. He 

had to move quickly—and preferably up. If he stayed here, he would be killed by 

the blast or drowned in the rush of water. The slipway on the right was covered. 

Alex looked the other way. Yet another tribesman had appeared and was 

scampering down. The three men who had first seen him were getting closer. 

That just left the rusty, winding ladder, running up the side of the bunker onto the 

roof and then up toward the two platforms. 

Alex grabbed hold of the first rung and began to climb. 

  

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

The F-4 Phantom 11 fighter jets had taken off at exactly 3:45 P.M. local time, 

their Rolls-Royce Spey engines powering them down the runway and into the air, 

climbing at 40,000 feet per minute. There were three of them. They had leveled 

off at 80,000 feet, moving into a classic arrow formation, before turning south 

toward Africa. Each one carried eight missiles. Between them, they were confident 

that they had enough firepower to turn McCain‟s wheat field into a blazing hell in 

which nothing, not so much as a single microbe, would survive. 

There was, of course, the faintest possibility that the initial force of the impact 

would propel some of the mushroom spores into the air, ahead of the flames. These 

spores would then travel very fast and very far and do their lethal work elsewhere. 

But as is so often the way with British politics, a decision had been made. If it was 

later shown to be wrong, all the evidence would be gently massaged to show that no 

other decision had been possible. Not that the public would ever hear about this. 

The orders that the three Phantom pilots had received were top secret. Their 

flight plan had not been recorded. As far as the world was concerned, they hadn‟t 

even taken off. 

And when the three planes crossed the Kenyan border, heading west from the 

Indian Ocean, the urgent inquiries from air traffic control in Nairobi were ignored. 

Later, it would be explained that they had accidentally strayed off course during a 

training mission. Profuse apologies would be offered to the Kenyan government. But 

for now, they were observing strict radio silence. 

The Phantoms were equipped with the Northrop target identification system, 

essentially a telescopic camera fitted to the left wing and connected to a 

radarscope inside the cockpit. As Alex began to climb the ladder at the Simba 

Dam, the planes began to drop altitude, flying toward the Rift Valley at just under 

1,200 miles per hour. Inside their cockpits, the pilots made their final 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

preparations. There would be no need for a flyby. The target coordinates were 

locked in. Once they had visual contact, they would open fire. 

  

Alex was halfway up the ladder, with the first maintenance platform stretching out 

above his head. It was hard work, climbing up. Because of the curve of the dam, he 

was leaning outward, and the force of gravity was against him; every time he pulled 

himself up another rung, he felt himself being dragged backward. The sun was now 

beating down on him, burning his shoulders and back. He forced himself to keep 

going. He was painfully aware of the bomb he had activated and that was ticking 

away even now. If only he had given himself more time! If it went off before he 

reached the top of the dam, there was a good chance the ladder would be blown 

off the wall—and him with it. He was already too high up. If he fell, he would die. 

He grabbed hold of the next rung and looked back, only to see two of the 

tribesmen who had raised the alarm—at this height they were no more than toy 

figures—running down to the foot of the dam. The third was holding back. None of 

them seemed anxious to climb the ladder after him. Why? 

He looked up and saw the reason. They had no need to follow him. Another Kikuyu 

man had reached the center of the dam and was already climbing down. 

There was no way out. Alex consoled himself with the knowledge that nobody knew 

about the bomb apart from him and that in about two or three minutes it would 

explode, releasing millions of gallons of water that would flood the valley, drowning 

the wheat. It would be mission accomplished . . . except that he wouldn‟t be around 

to see it. Somewhere in his mind, he wondered if anyone would ever discover what 

had happened. Perhaps Rahim would make a report if he managed to get away. He 

died fighting for what he believed in. Alex could already see the words inscribed on 

the medal. Jack could wear it at his funeral. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

But he wasn‟t ready to give up yet. He couldn‟t go back down. He saw that the third 

Kikuyu was aiming another spear at him. That was why he had positioned himself 

farther back. Well, he would be in for a surprise when the valve smashed. A spider 

down the bath drain! He was about to find out what it felt like. Alex seized hold of 

the next rung and pulled. Once again, the curving wall pushed him backward, as if it 

were desperate to make him let go. 

The man above him was getting closer. It was Njenga, McCain‟s first in command. 

He had already reached the upper platform and was dragging the rifle off his 

shoulder, bringing it around to pick off Alex. But Njenga knew that he too had 

made mistakes. First, as he‟d approached the dam, he had instructed his men to 

separate. He had been confused by all the different concrete ramps and stairways, 

the various outbuildings with their tanks and pipework. He had assumed Alex would 

try to hide and had given the order to spread out and search for him. 

And he had spotted Alex too late. From where he was standing, the slant of the 

dam put him at a disadvantage. So long as Alex remained underneath him, he was 

slightly tucked away, out of sight, and Njenga couldn‟t get off a clear shot. Why, 

then, was the boy still climbing? He had just reached the lower platform and was 

continuing up the next stretch of the ladder that would bring the two of them 

face-to-face. There was no need for shooting just yet. Njenga laid down the rifle, 

took out his machete, and smiled to himself. How far did the boy think he would be 

able to climb without hands? 

He waited. Alex was getting closer. 

Alex knew he couldn‟t risk going any farther. He could see Njenga‟s machete blade 

dangling in the air directly above him. If he climbed another few rungs, he would be 

in range. He would have to wait for the explosion. Perhaps the shock of it might 

change things, rearrange them in his favor. It was all he could hope for. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

At the bottom of the dam, the Kikuyu tribesman threw his spear. The black needle 

with its vicious silver point flashed toward Alex. He saw it out of the corner of his 

eye. The man who had thrown it must have been fantastically strong, as there were 

at least twenty yards between them. But the spear was off target. It was going to 

hit the wall just to his left. 

At the very last second, Alex let go of the ladder with one hand, his whole body 

swinging around as if on a hinge. He stretched out with his free hand and caught 

the spear in midair, then, using all the strength in his shoulder, swung himself back 

again. At the same time, he lunged upward. He had grabbed hold of the spear at 

the very bottom end. The beaten metal tip sliced into Njenga‟s leg, just above the 

ankle. Njenga screamed and toppled sideways. 

Then the bomb went off. 

Alex felt the entire ladder jerk violently. He was almost thrown off—and would 

have been if he hadn‟t been expecting the shock wave and prepared for it by 

wrapping himself around the metalwork, clinging on with his arms and his legs. He 

felt himself being slammed away from the wall of the dam and cried out as a ball of 

flame rushed past his back and shoulders, shooting into the air. But he was still 

there. The ladder had held. He hadn‟t been thrown off. 

Njenga was less fortunate. Shocked and in pain, with blood pouring out of the 

wound in his leg, he was caught off balance and plummeted down. He managed one 

twist in midair before dashing onto the rocks below. 

And instantly he was gone. Alex must have positioned the bomb perfectly. It had 

completely smashed the bottom outlet valve and ruptured the other valve too. It 

was as if the two biggest taps in the world had been turned on simultaneously. The 

water didn‟t just rush out—it erupted with such force that it seemed to obliterate 

the entire landscape—the rocks, the vegetation, and, of course, the three Kikuyus 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

who had been standing in its path. They were simply washed away, smashed out of 

existence by a thundering white locomotive that roared over them, taking them 

with it. 

How many thousands of gallons of water were being released by the second? It was 

impossible to say. The water didn‟t even look like water. It was more like smoke or 

steam—only more solid. Alex saw a huge tree uprooted as if it were no more than a 

weed, a boulder pushed effortlessly aside. And then the flood reached up for him. 

He felt the spray whipping into the back of his legs, and looking down, he saw that 

almost all the ladder had been ripped away, that the twisted metal ended just a 

few rungs beneath his feet. If he stayed here for a minute more, he too would be 

sucked into the vortex and obliterated. 

Once again he began to climb. The sound of the water was pounding in his ears, 

deafening him, and he remembered the huge lake that the Simba Dam had been 

containing and wondered how much longer the curving wall could hold it. The lake 

was a monster that had been given its first taste of freedom. This one torrent 

might not be enough. It would demand more. 

Alex was soaked from the spray. He was blistered by the sun. He was close to 

exhaustion. Yet somehow he dragged himself up to the platform where Njenga had 

been standing and then onto the last ladder that led to the top. He didn‟t dare look 

back. He could still hear an incredible, explosive pounding, the sound of the third 

day when God created the oceans. Surely it must have been like this. And he knew 

that very soon, the river that he had created would reach the wheat field. Every 

last stalk would be drowned. Maybe the water would even reach the Simba River 

Camp and destroy that too. He liked the idea of McCain disappearing in a swirl of 

mud and stones and broken trees. It was nothing less than he deserved. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

He reached the top of the ladder and rolled over a low wall with a road on the 

other side. Dripping wet, gasping for breath, he knelt for a moment, taking stock 

of his surroundings. 

The track that he had followed from the wheat field rose up past one of the 

slipways and continued over the lip of the dam, where it became a bridge, a dead 

straight line that crossed from one side to the other. That was where he was now. 

He had climbed over one hundred feet. The ground, with the churning water, was a 

long, long way down. On the other side of the dam, in front of him, the lake 

stretched toward the horizon, completely calm and undisturbed by what was taking 

place below. Alex could see distant mountains, the clouds, and the emerald sky, all 

reflected in the mirror of the surface. He turned back. From here he could make 

out the sweep of the land, a great plain with the silhouettes of trees and, in the 

far distance, a herd of gazelles, lost in their surroundings. 

And there was the wheat field with the first finger of water trickling through it, 

widening with every second that passed. In another minute it would begin to drown. 

In five, it would no longer exist. At least there was that. 

But once again he was trapped. The remaining Kikuyu tribesmen were on top of the 

dam, in two groups, left and right. They had already seen him and were shouting 

among themselves, excitedly raising their rifles, taking aim. Alex was midway 

between them. Did they know what had happened while he was on the ladder? It 

made no difference. They would have fired at him already, except they had to be 

careful. If they missed, there was a chance they might hit each other. 

They began to move forward. Alex could only stand and wait. 

The road trembled. Alex felt it, like an earthquake beneath his feet. At first he 

thought it must be tiredness, that he had imagined it. But then it happened again 

and this time it was stronger. The entire wall of the dam was shifting. The Kikuyus 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

had felt it too. They stopped dead in their tracks, looking at each other for 

explanation. The answer was obvious. 

The dam was breaking apart. Perhaps the bomb had damaged some of the joints 

where the individual blocks of concrete had come together in the construction. Or 

there could always have been a hairline crack, a weakness just waiting for the 

moment to bring an end to the whole thing. Well, that moment had come. Alex was 

thrown sideways as the ground tilted. He saw more water gushing out of a newly 

formed crack. Part of the wall crumbled, huge pieces of masonry tumbling in slow 

motion, disappearing into the chaos below. He knew that there were just seconds 

left before the whole thing collapsed. Even if he tried to run, it would be too late. 

The Kikuyus were retreating, panic etched into their faces. They had forgotten 

him. They had to get off the dam and back onto dry land. Two of them lurched into 

each other and then both of them were knocked sideways, thrown off their feet 

by the cement floor, which tilted up beneath them, their weapons clanging to the 

ground. They screamed as they fell over the edge. 

Alex fought for balance. Something was coming toward him. What was it now? A 

plane—but a strange one, small, like a toy. Alex recognized the Piper Cub. It was 

flying over the lake, heading toward him, so low that the wheels were almost 

touching the water. Was it McCain? Had he come for revenge? But then he saw a 

rope trailing from the back and a dark figure hunched over the controls. Rahim! He 

must have recovered to find Alex missing and somehow guessed what he planned to 

do. Rahim had come for him. He had told Alex he could fly. He had also said that he 

could slow the plane down to thirty-five miles per hour. He was steering it straight 

into the headwind, using the air currents to slow himself down. If he went any 

slower, he would surely stall. 

He knew what Rahim had in mind. But he couldn‟t do it. Alex would be torn in two. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Another explosion of concrete and water. Part of the dam tumbled like a house of 

cards, sinking into itself. The ground tilted crazily. Once again, Alex had to 

struggle to stay on his feet. 

The plane was so close that Alex could see the concentration on Rahim‟s face as he 

fought to keep himself in the air. The end of the rope was skimming the surface of 

the lake, snaking a line through the water. The plane looked slow, but the rope was 

whipping toward him, almost a blur. 

There was no other way. 

Blindly, Alex reached up and felt something lash into his chest and the side of his 

neck. The plane howled over him, so close that it nearly took off his head. The 

wheels rushed past. Somehow, his scrabbling hands caught hold of the rope, 

tearing the skin off his palms. The end twisted around him. And then he was jerked 

into the air, so hard that he felt like he was being split in half. Pain jolted through 

his arms and down his spine. His shoulders felt completely dislocated. He was 

blacking out. 

But his feet were in the air. He was being dragged up and now there was nothing 

beneath him except white foam, the bellowing water, crashing cement. Higher and 

higher. He wasn‟t even sure how he was holding on. Somehow the rope had tied 

itself around him. The ground was rushing past. 

Behind him, the Simba Dam disintegrated and the lake surged forward, free at 

last, hundreds of thousands of gallons pouring down into the valley. All the 

remaining Kikuyus were swept with it, mercilessly battered to death before they 

could even drown. 

Dangling from the plane, Alex was carried away. 

The water, blood red in the setting sun, continued pouring into an ever-widening 

sea. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

  

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

In London, the prime minister was on the telephone. 

“Yes.” He listened for a moment, a tic of anger beating in his forehead. “Yes, I 

quite understand. Thank you for keeping me informed.” 

He put the phone down. 

“Who was that?” Charles Blackmore, the director of communications, was in the 

office with him. It was 5:15 in the evening, but the day‟s work at Downing Street 

wouldn‟t end for a while yet. There were papers to be signed off, a planned phone 

call with the president of the United States, and at six o‟clock, a cocktail party 

being held for all the people who had been working on the London Olympics. The 

prime minister was looking forward to that. He still enjoyed seeing himself in the 

newspapers, particularly when he was supporting a popular cause. 

“It was the RAF in Cyprus,” the prime minister said. 

“Is there a problem?” 

“Not exactly.” The prime minister frowned. “It seems that this whole business in 

Kenya was a complete waste of time.” 

“Oh yes?” 

“We actually deployed three Phantom jets down to this place . . . the Simba Valley. 

The pilots had the exact coordinates. Fortunately, they decided to take a visual 

sighting before they fired off their missiles. And just as well . . .” 

Blackmore waited, a look of polite inquiry on his face. 

“There were no wheat fields . . . no sign of any crop at all. There‟s just a giant lake 

there. They circled over the entire area, to be sure that there wasn‟t any mistake. 

So either the information given us by MI6 was inaccurate, or this boy, Alex Rider, 

made the whole thing up.” 

“Why would he do that?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Well, he‟s only a child. I suppose he was seeking attention. But it just shows that I 

was absolutely right. Remind me to call the Joint Chiefs of Staff. I think I should 

have a word with them about Alan Blunt. I‟m afraid this puts a serious question 

mark over his judgment.” 

“I agree, Prime Minister.” Blackmore coughed. “So what did the Phantoms do?” 

“What else could they do? They turned around and went home. The whole thing was 

a complete waste of time and money. Perhaps we should start looking for someone 

else to head up Special Operations.” The prime minister stood up. “How long until 

the party, Charles?” 

“We have forty-five minutes.” 

“I think I might change. Put on a new tie. What do you think?” 

“Maybe the blue one?” 

“Good idea.” 

The file that Blunt had brought to the office was still on the desk. There was a 

photograph of Alex Rider clipped to the first page. The prime minister closed it 

and slid it into a drawer. Then he went out to get changed. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

24 

 

UNHAPPY LANDING 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

THE AIRPORT WAS ON THE OUTSKIRTS of a small town made up of brightly 

colored houses and shops and seemed to be a stopping point for tourists on their 

way to or from safari. There were half a dozen private planes lined up beside the 

single runway and a fancy clubhouse with wooden tables and sunshades where 

passengers could wait. Everything was very neat. The lawns and the hedges could 

have belonged to an English country house. There was a small playground with 

swings and a seesaw, and the children who were playing there were well-dressed 

and quiet. The evening was completely calm, with the sun setting behind the great 

mass of Mount Kenya, and the occasional clatter of a propeller starting up or the 

buzz of a plane landing seemed strangely inappropriate. Surely they could find 

somewhere else to go about the business of air travel! 

Alex Rider took this all in as the Piper J-3 Cub came in to land. They flew low over 

a row of chalets with the word LAIKIPIA painted in large letters across the roofs, 

and he guessed that this must be the name of the town. They had been flying for 

about an hour, heading southeast. He knew they couldn‟t have gone much farther. 

Looking over Rahim‟s shoulder, he had watched the needle on the fuel indicator 

begin its downward journey. It had arrived at zero a while ago. 

After everything he had been through, climbing into the rear seat of the Piper had 

almost been too much. Pulling himself up the rope, inch by inch, while being whipped 

through the air at eighty miles per hour and six thousand feet above the ground, 

he had forced his mind to go blank, to concentrate—totally—on what he had to do. 

He didn‟t look down. He wasn‟t sure he had the stomach for it. But nor did he look 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

up. That would only taunt him with how far he still had to go. All he could do was 

cling to the rope with his hands and his feet, trying to pretend that this was just a 

PE class at Brookland, that there was no wind rush on his face, no engines buzzing 

in his ears, and that when he got to the top he would be given a quick round of 

applause and then allowed to get changed for French. 

The whole thing would have been impossible if the crop duster had been equipped 

with a closed cockpit. But there were no windows or doors, and when Alex reached 

the top of the rope, he was able to grab the edge of the plane and pull himself over 

and into the backseat. He landed awkwardly, his face and shoulder burrowing into 

the soft leather—but it felt wonderful. He was safe. And he was leaving the 

Reverend Desmond McCain, the Kikuyus, and the Simba Dam far behind him. 

“Untie the rope!” 

Rahim had turned around and shouted at him, the wind snatching the words away 

even as they were spoken. Alex did as he was told, untying the rope from the wing 

strut and letting it fall back to earth. He watched it dwindle in the distance until it 

was no more than a wriggling worm and reflected that it could all too easily have 

been him, free-falling down to the earth far below. He couldn‟t believe what he had 

just been through. He sank back into the seat, belted himself in, and let out a deep 

sigh of relief. 

The RAW agent hadn‟t spoken again, and Alex was grateful. He was utterly drained 

and although sleep was impossible with the wind battering against him, he tried as 

best he could to relax, somehow to recharge his batteries, to put this whole 

business behind him. He wanted to go home. With his eyes half open, he watched 

the landscape slide away beneath him, the different patches of green and brown 

crisscrossed by roads and dirt tracks with tiny buildings scattered here and there 

and hinting at some sort of life—normal life—carrying on in the vastness of the 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Kenyan bush. The Piper‟s engine droned on. Rahim was wearing his camouflage 

jacket. Alex only had his shirt and pants, and as the evening drew in, he began to 

shiver. Very soon it would be night. 

But even though the sun had gone, the sky was still glowing softly when Rahim 

suddenly shouted into his headset, getting permission from air traffic control at 

Laikipia to land. The little plane wavered in the air as if finding its balance. The 

ground, a long strip of tarmac, rushed toward them. Then they bumped down and 

taxied to a halt. A few airport workers, dressed in bright yellow overalls with 

TROPICAIR stenciled across their chest, glanced curiously in their direction. It 

wasn‟t often they saw such an old-fashioned aircraft here. And a crop duster! 

There weren‟t any crops for miles. A few tourists sitting outside the clubhouse 

stood up and watched them come in. A couple of them unfastened their cameras 

and took pictures. 

Rahim turned off the engine and the propeller began to slow down. He took off his 

headset and twisted around. Alex wasn‟t sure what he had been expecting, but he 

was taken aback by the anger in the agent‟s face. 

“What did you think you were doing?” Rahim exploded. He still had to shout to 

make himself heard, but from the look of him, he would have shouted anyway. “You 

could have gotten yourself killed. You could have gotten me killed!” 

“Rahim . . . ,” Alex began. He wanted to climb out of the plane. Couldn‟t they have 

this argument over a cold drink and something to eat? 

But Rahim was in no mood to go anywhere. “You stole my equipment. I cannot 

believe what you did. You left me there—” 

“I had to do it.” 

“No! My job was to kill McCain. That was all. We could have dealt with his plan 

afterward. You disobeyed my instructions, Alex. Do you have any idea of the 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

damage you‟ve caused? And how do you think my people are going to explain all this 

to the Kenyan authorities? You took out an entire hydroelectric and irrigation 

system!” 

“Well, maybe you can tell them we saved thousands of lives. They might like that.” 

“McCain is still out there. He got away.” 

“I left you your gun. Why didn‟t you just go and shoot him?” 

“Because I had to come after you.” Rahim shook his head in exasperation. “I should 

have left you to the crocodiles.” 

There was a brief silence. The propeller was still turning, but more slowly. 

“Where are we?” Alex asked. “What are we doing here?” 

“This is Laikipia. We have to refuel. I‟m leaving you here. I‟ve contacted my people 

and they‟ll arrange for you to be picked up.” 

“What about you?” 

“I‟m going—” 

That was as far as he got. To Alex, it appeared as if Rahim had snapped his head 

around the other way. At the same time, he was aware of a sudden spray of red 

vapor filling the air in front of him. Alex looked back to see Desmond McCain, 

dressed in a brown linen suit, walking toward him, the Mauser pistol in his hand. He 

turned back to Rahim. The agent was dead. He had collapsed forward over the 

controls. There was a gaping wound in the side of his head. 

Alex felt a wave of anger and disgust. He was also sorry. Despite everything, Rahim 

had come back for him and saved him . . . for the third time. Alex hadn‟t even had a 

chance to thank him. 

The propeller stopped. 

McCain stood beside the plane, right next to the wing. The gun was now leveled at 

Alex. How had McCain gotten here? Alex was too shocked to think, but it occurred 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

to him that if Rahim had chosen this airfield to refuel, then McCain might have 

landed here for exactly the same reason. All around him, he was aware of people—

aircrew, tourists, children—running for cover, in panic. They had just seen a 

stumbling giant of a man, with a silver crucifix in his ear, appear from nowhere and 

commit murder for no obvious reason. They must think he was insane. If they only 

knew! 

McCain didn‟t seem to know where he was—or even to care. He had seen Alex and 

he had come to settle the score. Nothing else mattered. 

“Get out of the plane,” McCain said. His voice was steady, but his eyes were 

bloodshot and unfocused, the skin around his face stretched tight. He was 

trembling slightly. He was doing his best to control it, but the muzzle of the gun 

gave him away. 

Alex stayed where he was. 

“What do you want, Mr. McCain?” he demanded. “I‟m not going anywhere. Nor are 

you. Your wheat field is at the bottom of a lake. There isn‟t going to be any plague. 

It‟s all over.” 

“Get. Out. Of. The. Plane,” McCain repeated. His finger tightened on the trigger. 

He was holding the gun as if he were trying to crush it. 

“Why?” 

“I want to see you kneeling in front of me. Just for once, I want you to behave like 

an ordinary child. You‟re going to cry and beg me not to hurt you. And then I‟m 

going to put this gun between your eyes and shoot you dead.” 

“Then you might as well shoot me here. I‟m not playing your games.” 

McCain dropped the gun a few inches so that it was aiming at Alex‟s legs. Alex knew 

that the skin of the Piper Cub would offer no protection at all. “I can make it slow . 

. . ,” McCain said. 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

Alex nodded. He took one more look around him. It didn‟t seem as if anyone was 

going to come to his rescue. The whole airfield had emptied. The other planes—and 

now he spotted the Skyhawk that had first brought him to Simba River Lodge—

were silent, unmoving. Surely someone would have called the police by now . . . 

assuming that there were any police operating in a remote town like Laikipia. 

“All right,” he said. 

He unbuckled his belt, gripped the sides of the plane, and began to pull himself out. 

At the same time, he glanced into the front of the plane, past the slumped figure 

of the pilot. He knew that Rahim had a gun. But there was no sign of it and no way 

he could search around without receiving a bullet himself. 

What else? His eyes fell on the metal lever between the two seats. He thought of 

the two rubber pipes running underneath his feet, connected to the plastic tanks 

at the back of the plane. The pipes that had sprayed a wheat field with death. 

The whole system must work on pressure, with the tank pumped up by the engine. 

They had been flying for an hour, so there had to be enough pressure in the tubes. 

But was there any of the mushroom spore left in the tanks? Alex didn‟t dare turn 

around and look. McCain was still standing under the wing, waiting for him to climb 

down. 

Alex stood up. As he swung his leg over the side, he pretended to stumble. His 

hand shot out, slamming the lever down. At once he heard a hiss—and a mere 

second later, a film of gray, slimy liquid squirted out of the pipes. McCain was 

taken by surprise. For a moment he was blinded, caught in the middle of the 

shower, the mushroom brew splashing over his head and into his eyes. 

McCain fired his gun—but missed. After slamming the lever, Alex had thrown 

himself the other way, tumbling over the far side of the plane and down to the 

grass below. He heard the bullet thwack into the fuselage, inches from his head. At 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

the same time, he hit the ground and cried out, a white flash blazing behind his 

eyes. He had landed badly, twisting his ankle beneath him. Worse still, the tanks 

had only contained a few dregs. Alex had barely got to his feet and begun to limp 

away before the shower stopped and McCain, cursing and wiping his eyes, was after 

him. 

Alex could barely do more than hobble. His foot wouldn‟t take his full weight. Every 

step was an agony that shot up his leg and all the way to his neck. He knew he 

wouldn‟t be able to go much farther, and anyway, there was nowhere to go. Behind 

him, the grass and the landing strip stretched out, flat and empty. The perimeter 

was fenced off with an open gate leading to the edge of the town, but it was too 

far away. He would never reach it. McCain didn‟t seem to be moving fast, but like a 

figure in a nightmare he was getting closer with every step. 

Alex came to a line of drums stacked up on the grass right next to the tarmac, 

each one marked TOTAL ESSENCE PLOMBÉE. Leaded fuel. Why was it written in 

French? McCain fired five times. The nearest drum shivered and fuel began to 

splash out, spouting in five directions. Alex dived for cover behind it. His ankle 

burned with pain. He wondered if he would be able to get up again. 

McCain stopped about ten paces away, as if this was a game and he had all the time 

in the world. Casually, he took out a fresh ammunition clip and reloaded the gun. 

Meanwhile, the fuel continued to gush out. 

“You can‟t hide from me, child,” McCain shouted. “ „Vengeance is mine. I will repay, 

sayeth the Lord.‟ That‟s Romans chapter twelve. A vengeful god . . . isn‟t that a 

wonderful thing? And now, finally, the time for my vengeance has come. Let me see 

you.” 

Alex tested one of the drums. It was full of fuel and too heavy to move. But the 

drum that McCain had punctured was emptying rapidly. Lying on his back, he 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

pressed both feet against it and pushed with all his strength. It toppled over. Now 

Alex was exposed. There was nothing between him and McCain‟s gun. He got to his 

knees, leaned on the drum, then rolled it over the tarmac toward McCain. 

McCain smiled. He walked forward and place a single foot on the drum, stopping its 

progress. He had a clear view of Alex and at this range he couldn‟t miss. Alex was 

still kneeling on the ground. It was just what he wanted. 

“Is that the best you can do? Send a drum to run me over? You are a child, aren‟t 

you? This isn‟t a game, Alex. Do you know how many years I spent planning this 

operation?” McCain asked. His voice carried across the short distance. He was 

leaning forward, one foot still perched on the drum, his elbow resting on his thigh. 

“Do you have any idea what it meant to me? All I wanted was my rightful place in 

the world. Money is power and I was going to have more than you could possibly 

imagine. 

“And now you are going to pay. I‟m going to shoot you now. Not once but several 

times. And then I‟m going to walk away.” He lifted the gun. “Good-bye, Alex. You‟re 

going on a slow journey to hell.” 

“Let me know what it‟s like,” Alex said. 

The fuel drum exploded. In the seconds before he had sent it rolling, Alex had 

attached the black gel-ink pen that Smithers had given him to the metal surface. 

He had activated it with a thirty-second fuse. And it had worked. One moment, 

McCain was taking aim, the next he had disappeared in a pillar of flame that roared 

into the sky. It really was like a judgment from heaven. He didn‟t even have time to 

scream. 

Alex was already twisting away, trying to put as much space between himself and 

the inferno as he could. He was too close. Blazing droplets of aviation fuel rained 

down from the sky. He felt them hit his shoulders and back and with horror 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

realized he was on fire. But the grass had recently been watered. It was cool and 

damp under his hands. Alex rolled over again and again. His skin was burning. The 

pain was horrific. But after spinning half a dozen times, he had put out the flames. 

He looked back at the tarmac. The charred, unrecognizable figure that had once 

been the Reverend Desmond McCain was on its knees. One final prayer. The silver 

earring had gone. There wasn‟t very much of him left. 

He heard shouting. Police and airport workers were running toward him. Alex 

couldn‟t see them. He was stretched out on the grass, trying to bury himself in it. 

Was it really over at last, the journey that had begun in a Scottish castle and had 

led to an airport in Africa? How had he ever gotten himself into this? 

He couldn‟t move. And he was barely aware of the men who lifted him as gently as 

possible, laid him on a stretcher, and carried him away. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

25 

 

SOFT CENTERS 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

THE SNOW THAT HAD BEEN PROMISED in London had finally arrived. 

Only a few inches had fallen during the night, but as usual, it had brought chaos to 

the streets. Buses had stayed in their depots, the subway system had shut down, 

schools were closed, and half the workforce had decided to take a day off and stay 

at home. Snowmen had appeared suddenly in all the London parks, standing under 

trees, leaning against walls, even sitting on benches . . . like some invading army 

that had come and seen and decided to take a well-earned rest before it set out to 

conquer. 

It was the second week in February, and the winter had taken a grip on the city 

and seemed determined never to let go. The streets were empty, the parked cars 

huddled beneath their white blankets, but Jack Starbright had managed to 

persuade a taxi to bring her to St. Dominic‟s Hospital in one of the northern 

suburbs of the city. She had been here before. It was a favorite place of the 

Special Operations Division of MI6 when its agents were injured in the field. This 

was where they sent them to recover. Alex had spent two weeks here after he had 

been shot by Scorpia. 

Mrs. Jones was waiting for her in the reception area. She was wearing a black full-

length coat with leather gloves and a scarf. It was hard to say if she had just 

arrived or if she was on her way out. 

“How is he?” Jack asked. 

“He‟s much better,” Mrs. Jones said, and it occurred to Jack that she could have 

been talking about someone who had just recovered from a bad cold. “The burns 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

have healed up and he won‟t need any skin grafts. He won‟t be playing any sports 

for a while. He fractured his ankle at Laikipia airport. But he has amazing powers 

of recovery. The doctors are very pleased with him.” She smiled. “He‟s looking 

forward to seeing you.” 

“Where is he?” 

“Room nine on the second floor.” 

“That‟s the same room as last time.” 

“Maybe we should name it after him.” 

Jack shook her head. “I wouldn‟t bother. He won‟t be coming back.” 

The two women stood facing each other, each one waiting for the other to speak. 

Mrs. Jones could see the accusation in Jack‟s eyes. “This really wasn‟t our fault,” 

she said. “Alex met McCain quite by accident. That business in Scotland had 

nothing to do with us.” 

“But that didn‟t stop you from sending him to Greenfields.” 

“We had no idea that McCain was involved.” 

“And if you had—would that have stopped you?” 

Mrs. Jones shrugged. She had no need to answer. 

There was a plastic bag resting on a chair. Mrs. Jones picked it up and handed it to 

Jack. “You might like to give this to Alex. It‟s from Smithers. Some chocolates . . .” 

“Oh yes? And what do they do? Explode when he puts them into his mouth?” 

“They‟re soft centers. Smithers thought he might enjoy them.” 

Jack took the bag. She glanced toward the elevator, then back at Mrs. Jones. 

“Promise me that this will be the end of it,” she said. “From what you‟ve told me, 

this time it was worse than ever. It‟s a miracle he‟s still alive. Do you have any idea 

what this must be doing to him . . . inside his head, I mean?” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Actually, I have a very good idea,” Mrs. Jones countered. “I asked our 

psychiatrists to run a few tests on him.” 

“That‟s very thoughtful of you. But I mean it, Mrs. Jones. Alex has done enough. I 

want you out of his life.” 

Mrs. Jones sighed. “I can‟t promise you that, I‟m afraid. First of all, it‟s not my 

decision. And anyway, as I said, this didn‟t begin with us. Alex has a knack for 

finding trouble without any help.” 

“I‟m not going to let it happen again.” 

“Believe me, Jack. I‟ll be very happy if you can prevent it.” Mrs. Jones pulled up her 

collar and tightened her belt. “Anyway,” she said, “Alex is waiting for you. You‟d 

better go up.” 

“I‟m going. Please thank Mr. Smithers for the chocolates.” 

Jack took the elevator to the second floor. She didn‟t need to ask for directions. 

The layout of the hospital was all too familiar. As she approached the door of 

Alex‟s room, a woman came out carrying a breakfast tray, and Jack recognized 

Diana Meacher, the attractive fair-haired nurse from New Zealand who had looked 

after Alex once before. 

“Go right in,” the nurse said. “He‟s been looking forward to seeing you. He‟ll be so 

glad you‟re here.” 

Jack hesitated, composing herself. Then she went into the room. 

Alex was sitting up in bed, reading a magazine. His pajama top was open and she 

could see that, once again, he was heavily wrapped in bandages, this time around his 

neck and shoulders. His eyes were bright and he was smiling, but he looked bad. 

Pain had stamped its memory all over him. He was thin. The haircut that Beckett 

had given him when he was smuggled out of the country didn‟t help. 

“Hello, Jack.” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

“Hi, Alex.” 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

She went over to him and kissed him very gently, afraid that she would hurt him. 

Then she sat down beside the bed. 

“How are you feeling?” she asked. 

“Terrible.” 

“As terrible as you look?” 

“Probably.” Alex put down the magazine, and Jack saw that even this movement 

made him wince. “They‟ve taken me off painkillers,” he explained. “They say they 

don‟t want me to get addicted to them.” 

“Oh, Alex . . .” Jack‟s voice caught in her throat. She had been determined not to 

cry in front of him, but she couldn‟t keep the tears from her eyes. 

“I‟m fine,” Alex said. “I‟m already much better than I was a week ago.” In fact, 

Alex had spent ten days in the hospital in Nairobi before MI6 had flown him home. 

“I wanted to come out and see you.” 

“I‟m glad you didn‟t.” 

Jack understood. If he looked this bad now, she could hardly imagine what he must 

have looked like then. He wouldn‟t have wanted her to see him like that. 

“Are you angry with me?” Alex asked. 

“Of course not. I‟m just relieved to see you. After you went missing, I was . . .” 

Jack stopped herself. “When can you come home?” she asked. 

“I was talking to the nurse just now. She says that if all goes well, it should only be 

a couple of days. Tuesday. Wednesday at the latest.” 

“Well, thank goodness for that,” Jack said. “You know what Thursday is.” 

“No.” Alex had no idea. 

“Alex!” Jack stared at him. 

“Tell me . . .” 

ALEX RIDER SERIES 
 

 

CROCODILE TEARS 

 

“Thursday, February thirteenth. It‟s your birthday, Alex. You‟re going to be 

fifteen.” 

“Am I?” Alex laughed. “So, what are you going to buy me?” 

“What do you want?” 

“I want to go home. I want peace and quiet. And I want that new version of 

Assassin‟s Creed . . . it‟s just come out on PlayStation.” 

“I‟m not sure those violent computer games are good for you, Alex.” 

Jack didn‟t tell him that she had already bought it and that a few of his closest 

friends were waiting for her call, hoping to come around. 

Surely MI6 would leave him alone now. They had stolen almost a whole year of his 

life. But never again. Jack made herself that promise. 

In front of her, Alex settled back into the pillows. His eyes were closed and even 

as she watched, he smiled and fell asleep. 

 

 

 

