3/667

Table of Contents

Title Page
Copyright Page
Dedication

PART ONE - SCORPIA

Chapter 1 - STOLEN GODS
Chapter 2 - THE MEASUREMENT OF PAIN
Chapter 3 - FLY-BY-NIGHT
Chapter 4 - PRISONER 7
Chapter 5 - OVER THE EDGE
Chapter 6 - SECRETS AND LIES

PART TWO - ALEX

Chapter 7 - ANGLE OF ATTACK
Chapter 8 - FLYING LESSON
Chapter 9 - SAFETY MEASURES

5/667

Chapter 10 - WELCOME TO CAIRO
Chapter 11 - THE NEW BOY
Chapter 12 - IN THE PICTURE
Chapter 13 - THE HOUSE OF GOLD
Chapter 14 - THE BELL ROOM
Chapter 15 - PLAN A . . . PLAN B
Chapter 16 - INSIDE EVERY FAT MAN . . .
Chapter 17 - CITY OF THE DEAD
Chapter 18 - HELL IS WAITING
Chapter 19 - HELL IS HERE
Chapter 20 - HALF AN INCH
Chapter 21 - CAIRO STORM
Chapter 22 - SELKET
Chapter 23 - A PINCH OF SALT
Chapter 24 - DEPARTURES

ALSO BY ANTHONY

HOROWITZ

THE ALEX RIDER NOVELS:

Stormbreaker
Point Blank
Skeleton Key
Eagle Strike

Scorpia
Ark Angel
Snakehead

Crocodile Tears

THE DIAMOND BROTHERS MYSTERIES:

The Falcon’s Malteser

Public Enemy Number Two

Three of Diamonds
South by Southeast

Horowitz Horror

7/667

More Horowitz Horror

Bloody Horowitz

The Devil and His Boy

001

PHILOMEL BOOKS

A division of Penguin Young Readers Group.

Published by The Penguin Group.

Penguin Group (USA) Inc., 375 Hudson

Street, New York, NY 10014, U.S.A.

Penguin Group (Canada), 90 Eglinton Aven-

ue East, Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario M4P

2Y3,

Canada (a division of Pearson Penguin

Canada Inc.).

Penguin Books Ltd, 80 Strand, London

WC2R 0RL, England.

Penguin Ireland, 25 St. Stephen’s Green,
Dublin 2, Ireland (a division of Penguin

Books Ltd).

Penguin Group (Australia), 250 Camberwell
Road, Camberwell, Victoria 3124, Australia
(a division of Pearson Australia Group Pty

Ltd).

Penguin Books India Pvt Ltd, 11 Community

Centre, Panchsheel Park, New Delhi—110

017, India.

10/667

Penguin Group (NZ), 67 Apollo Drive,

Rosedale, North Shore 0632, New Zealand
(a division of Pearson New Zealand Ltd).
Penguin Books (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd, 24

Sturdee Avenue, Rosebank,

Johannesburg 2196, South Africa.

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: 80

Strand, London WC2R 0RL, England.

Copyright © 2011 by Anthony Horowitz.

All rights reserved. This book, or parts thereof, may not be
reproduced in any form without permission in writing from
the publisher, Philomel Books, a division of Penguin Young
Readers Group, 345 Hudson Street, New York, NY 10014.

Philomel Books, Reg. U.S. Pat. & Tm. Off. Published in

Great Britain by Walker Books, Ltd., London. The scanning,
uploading and distribution of this book via the Internet or
via any other means without the permission of the publisher

is illegal and punishable by law. Please purchase only au-

thorized electronic editions, and do not participate in or en-

courage electronic piracy of copyrighted materials. Your

support of the author’s rights is appreciated. The publisher

does not have any control over and does not assume any

responsibility for author or third-party websites or their

11/667

content.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is avail-

able upon request.

eISBN : 978-1-101-47629-1

http://us.penguingroup.com

Dedicated to every reader who set out

on this journey with me and who has now

come to its end.

PART ONE

SCORPIA

1

STOLEN GODS

THE MAN IN THE BLACK CASHMERE coat
climbed down the steps of his private, six-
seater Learjet 40 and stood for a moment,
his breath frosting in the chill morning air.
He glanced across the tarmac as a refueling
truck rumbled past. In the distance, two men
in yellow were standing, talking, in front of a
hangar. Otherwise, he seemed to be alone.
Ahead of him, a sign read Welcome to Lon-
don’s City Airport, and beneath it an open
door beckoned, leading to immigration. He
headed for it, completely unaware that he
was being watched every step of the way.
The man was in his fifties, bald and ex-

pressionless. Inside the terminal, he gave his

15/667

passport to the official and watched with
blank eyes as it was examined and handed
back, then continued on his way. He had no
luggage. There was a black limousine waiting
for him outside with a gray-suited chauffeur
behind the wheel. The man offered no greet-
ing as he got in nor did he speak as they set
off, following the curve of the River Thames
up toward Canning Town and on toward the
center of London itself.

His name was Zeljan Kurst and he was

wanted by the police in seventeen different
countries. He was the chief executive of the
international criminal organization known as
Scorpia, and as far as it was known, he had
never actually been seen on the streets of
London. However, MI6 had been tipped off
that he was coming. They had been waiting
for him to land. The passport official was one
of their agents. They were following him
now.

16/667

“Heading west on the A13 Commercial
Road toward Whitechapel. Car three, take
over at the next intersection.”

“Car three moving into position.”
“Okay. Dropping back.”
The disembodied voices bounced across

the airwaves on a channel so secret that any-
one trying to tune in without the necessary
filters would have heard only the hiss of stat-
ic. It would have been easier to have arrested
Kurst at the airport. He could have been
made to disappear in five seconds, bundled
out in a crate and never seen again. But it
had been decided, at the very highest level,
to follow him and see where he went. For the
head of Scorpia to be in England at all was
remarkable. For him to be on his own, and
on his way to a meeting, was beyond belief.

Zeljan Kurst was not aware that he was
surrounded. He had no idea that his flight
plan had been leaked by one of his own
people in return for a complete change of

17/667

identity and a new life in Panama. But even
so, he was uneasy. Everything had told him
that he shouldn’t be here. When the invita-
tion had first arrived on his desk, delivered
by a series of middlemen and traveling
halfway around the world and back again, he
had thought about refusing. He was not an
errand boy. He couldn’t be summoned like a
waiter in a restaurant. But then he had
reconsidered.

When the fourth-richest man in the world
asks you to meet him, and pays you one mil-
lion dollars just to turn up, it might be worth
it to hear what he has to say.

“We’re on High Holborn. Car four moving

to intercept.”

“Wait a minute. Wait a minute. He’s turn-

ing off.”

The limousine had crossed the main road
and entered a narrow street full of old-fash-
ioned shops and cafés. The move had taken
the MI6 men by surprise, and for a moment

18/667
there was panic as they struggled to catch up.
Two of their cars swerved across the
traffic—to a blast of horns—and plunged in
after it. They were just in time to see the lim-
ousine stop and Zeljan Kurst get out.

“Car four, where are you?” The voice was

suddenly urgent. “Where is the target?”

A pause. Then—“He’s entering the British

Museum.”

It was true. Kurst had passed through the
gates and was crossing the open area in front
of the famous building that rose up ahead of
him, its huge pillars stretching from one side
to the other. He was carrying an ebony walk-
ing stick that measured out his progress, rap-
ping against the concrete. The MI6 men were
already piling out of their own cars, but they
were too late. Even as they watched from the
other side of the gates, Kurst disappeared in-
to the building, and they knew that if they
didn’t act swiftly, they would lose him for
good. There was more than one way out. It

19/667

was unlikely that the Scorpia man would
have traveled all the way to England just to
look at an exhibit. He might have gone inside
deliberately to lose them.

“He’s inside the museum. Cars one, two,
and three, surround the building. Watch all
possible exits. We need immediate backup.”
Someone had taken charge. But whoever it
was, his voice sounded high-pitched and un-
certain. It was eleven o’clock on a bright
February morning. The museum would be
crowded with tourists and schoolchildren. If
there was going to be any action, if they were
going to arrest Zeljan Kurst, this was the last
place they would have wanted to do it.

In fact, Kurst was still unaware of his pur-
suers as he crossed the Great Court, a gleam-
ing white space with a spectacular glass roof
sweeping in a huge curve overhead. He skir-
ted around the gift shops and information
booths, making for the first galleries. As he
went, he noticed a Japanese couple, tiny and

20/667

almost identical, taking photographs of each
other against a twisting staircase. A bearded
student with a backpack stood next to the
postcards, pulling them out one at a time
and studying them as if trying to find hidden
codes. Tap, tap, tap. The end of the walking
stick beat out its rhythm as he continued on
his way. He knew exactly where he was going
and would arrive at the exact minute that
had been agreed upon.

Zeljan Kurst was a large man with heavy,
broad shoulders that formed a straight line
on either side of an unnaturally thick neck.
He was bald by choice. His head had been
shaved and there was a dark gray shadow be-
neath the skin. His eyes, a muddy brown,
showed little intelligence, and he had the
thick lips and small, squashed nose of a
wrestler, or perhaps a bouncer at a shady
nightclub. Many people had underestimated
him and occasionally Kurst had found it ne-
cessary to correct them. This usually

21/667

involved killing them. He walked past the
statue of a naked, crouching goddess. An eld-
erly woman with a deerstalker hat, sitting on
a stool with brushes and oil paints, was mak-
ing a bad copy of it on a large white canvas.
Ahead of Kurst were two stone anim-
als—strangely shaped lions—and to one side
an entire temple, more than two thousand
years old, brought from southwest Turkey
and reconstructed piece by piece. He barely
glanced at them. He didn’t like museums, al-
though his house was furnished with rare ob-
jects that had been stolen from several of
them. But that was the point. Why should
something that might be worth hundreds of
thousands of dollars be left to molder in a
dark room, stared at by idiot members of the
general public who had little or no idea of its
true value? Kurst had a simple rule of life. To
enjoy something fully, you had to own it.
And if you couldn’t buy it, then you would
have to steal it.

22/667

Ahead of him, two modern glass doors led

into a final gallery. He watched as a tall,
well-built black man carrying a notebook
and pen walked through, then went in him-
self. The gallery was huge, stretching out in
both directions, like an airport runway. Al-
though there were more than a hundred
people there, it wasn’t even half full.
Everything was gray: the walls, the floor, the
very air. But spotlights shining down from
the ceiling, ten times higher than the visitors
who stood beneath it, picked out the treas-
ures that the room contained and these
shone, soft and gold.

They ran along both walls, from one end to

the other, a series of marble tablets with a
crowd of figures that had been brought to-
gether to form a single line. They were men
and women, ancient Greeks, some sitting,
some standing, some talking, some riding on
horseback. Some carried musical instru-
ments, others bundles of linen or plates and

23/667

glasses for a feast. Many of them were in-
complete. Two and a half millennia had worn
away their faces, broken off arms and legs.
But there was something remarkable about
the details that remained. It was easy to see
that these had been real people, that they
had once lived ordinary lives until they had
been frozen in this waking dream, an entire
world captured in stone.

Zeljan Kurst barely glanced at them. The

gallery had two raised platforms, one at each
end, reached by a short flight of steps or an
elevator—which must have been used by the
man he had come to see. He was on the far
right, sitting on his own in a wheelchair, with
a blanket over his knees. Kurst walked over
to him.

“Mr. Kurst?” The voice was dry and
strangled. It came from a lizard neck.

Kurst nodded. He was a careful man and

had made it a rule never to speak unless
there was a particular need.

24/667

“I am Ariston.”
“I know who you are.”
“Thank you for coming.”
Yannis Ariston Xenopolos was said to be

worth about thirty-five billion dollars. He
had made this money from a huge shipping
empire, which he controlled from his offices
in Athens. To this he had added an airline,
Ariston Air, and a chain of hotels. And now
he was dying. Kurst would have known it
even without reading stories in the newspa-
pers. It was obvious from the sunken cheeks,
the dreadful white of the man’s skin, the way
he sat like a hunched-up Egyptian mummy,
his body disappearing into itself. But most of
all it was in his eyes. Kurst had once been the
head of the Yugoslav police force, and he had
always been interested in the way the prison-
ers had looked at him just before he executed
them. He could see the same thing right
here. The Greek had accepted death. All hope
had gone.

25/667

“I took a considerable risk coming here.”
Kurst spoke with a heavy Eastern European
accent which somehow dragged his words
down. “What is it you want?”

“I would have thought the answer would

be obvious to you.”

“The Elgin marbles . . .”
“Exactly. I wanted you to come here so

that you would understand.”

Ariston reached out with a hand that was
more like a claw, gripping a lever on the arm
of his wheelchair. The whole thing was bat-
tery operated, and with a soft whir, it spun
him around so that he faced the room.

“This is one of the greatest pieces of art

that the world has ever produced,” he began.
“Take a look at the figures, Mr. Kurst. They
are so beautiful that it is almost impossible
to find the words to describe them. They
once decorated a temple in the heart of
Athens—the Parthenon, dedicated to Athena,
the goddess of wisdom. The frieze that you

26/667

are examining depicts the summer festival
that took place every year in honor of the
goddess . . .”

Again the claw pressed down, turning him
so that he faced a group of statues that stood
inside the chamber, behind him. First there
was a horse rising as if out of water, with
only its head showing. Then came a naked
man, lying on his back. Then three women,
all missing their heads. From the way they
were arranged, it was clear that these figures
had once stood in the triangles at each end of
the Parthenon.

“The horse belonged to Helios, the sun

god,” Ariston explained. “Next comes
Dionysus, the god of wine. The figures to his
right are the goddess Demeter and her
daughter—”

“I am familiar with the Elgin marbles,”

Kurst interrupted. It didn’t matter how much
he had been paid. He hadn’t come here for a
lecture.

27/667

“Then you will also be aware that they
were all plundered. Stolen! Two hundred
years ago, a British aristocrat called Lord El-
gin came to Athens. He tore them off the
temple and transported them back to Lon-
don. Since then my country has asked many
times for them to be returned. We have even
built a new museum in Athens to house
them. They are the glory of Greece, Mr.
Kurst. They are part of our heritage. They
should come home.”

The old man fumbled in his blanket and

produced an oxygen mask, which he pressed
against his face. There was the hiss of com-
pressed air and he sucked greedily. At last,
he began again.

“But the British government has refused.
They insist on keeping this stolen property.
They will not listen to the voice of the Greek
people. And so I have decided that, although
it is the last thing I will do in my life, I will
make them listen. That is why I have

28/667

contacted you and your organization. I want
you to steal the sculptures and return them
to Greece.”

On the street outside, four more cars had
pulled up next to the British Museum, spill-
ing out fifteen more agents. That made
twenty-three in total with the ones who had
followed Kurst from City Airport. They were
fairly confident that their man was still in-
side the building. But with ninety-four gal-
leries covering a floor space of two and a half
square miles, it was going to be almost im-
possible to find him. And already the order
had gone out. Do not, under any circum-
stances, approach him while he is in a public
area. This man is extremely dangerous. If he
feels that he’s trapped, there’s no saying
what he will do. The result could be a
bloodbath.

Zeljan Kurst was quite unaware of the ap-

proaching MI6 men as he considered what
the Greek billionaire had just said.

29/667

“Stealing the Elgin marbles won’t help

you,” Kurst said. “The British government
will simply demand them back. It would be
better to threaten them. To blackmail them,
perhaps.”

“Do whatever it takes. I don’t care. You can

kill half the population of this loathsome
country if it will achieve what I want . . .”
Ariston broke into a fit of coughing. Pearls of
white saliva appeared at his lips.

Kurst waited for him to recover. Then he

nodded slowly. “It can be done,” he said.
“But it will take time. And it will be
expensive.”

Ariston nodded. “This work is my legacy to
the Greek people. If you will agree to do it for
me, I will pay you five million dollars imme-
diately with a further fifteen million when
you succeed.”

“It’s not enough,” Kurst said.
Ariston looked at him slyly. “There was a

time when you might have said that and I

30/667

would have been forced to agree,” he said.
“But Scorpia is not what it was. There have
been two failures in the space of a single
year. The operation called Invisible Sword
and, more recently, the business in northw-
est Australia.” He smiled, showing gray
teeth. “The very fact that you are here today
shows how weak you have become.”

“Scorpia has regrouped,” Kurst retorted.

“We have taken on new recruits. I would say
we are stronger than ever. We can choose
our clients, Mr. Xenopolos, and we do not
negotiate.”

“Name your price.”
“Forty million.”
Ariston’s eyes barely flickered. “Agreed.”
“Half in advance.”
“As you wish.”
Kurst turned and walked away without
saying another word, his cane beating the
same rhythm on the floor. As he made his
way back toward the entrance, his mind was

31/667

already focused on the task that lay ahead.
Although he would never have dreamed of
saying as much, he was glad that he had
come here today. It was actually very much
his desire to take on the British government
once again. The failures that Ariston had
mentioned had both involved the British
secret service.

It was fortunate that the old man hadn’t
heard the full story. Would he have still ap-
proached Scorpia if he had known the almost
incredible truth? That both failures had in-
volved the same fourteen-year-old boy?

In the end, it was just bad luck—bad tim-
ing—that he left when he did. He was about
to reach the Great Court when one of the
MI6 agents crossed in front of him and sud-
denly the two of them were face-to-face, only
inches apart. The agent—his name was Trav-
is—was new and inexperienced. He was un-
able to keep the shock out of his eyes, and at

32/667

that moment Kurst knew that he had been
recognized.

Travis had no choice. He had been given

his orders, but he knew that if he obeyed
them he would die. He fumbled in his jacket
and pulled out his pistol, the 9mm Browning
that has long been a favorite of the SAS. At
the same time, he shouted, louder than he
needed to, “Stay where you are! If you move,
I’ll fire.” It was exactly how he had been
trained. He was both exerting his authority
over his target and alerting any nearby
agents that his cover had been blown.

Unfortunately, in the silence of the mu-

seum and with the ceiling so high overhead,
his words echoed out. A few tourists turned
to see what was happening. They caught
sight of the gun. The first seeds of panic were
planted and instantly began to grow.

Kurst raised his hands, one of them still

holding the ebony walking stick. At the same
time, he moved very slightly to one side.

33/667

Travis followed him with his eyes and didn’t
see something flash through the air over
Kurst’s shoulder, didn’t even notice it until it
had buried itself in his throat. The old wo-
man who had been painting the copy of the
kneeling goddess had followed Kurst to the
door. Underneath the makeup, she wasn’t
old at all, and her brushes might have had
tufts at one end, but the handles were
precision-made steel and razor sharp. Travis
fell to his knees. In the last second of his life,
his trigger finger tightened and the gun went
off, the explosion amplified by the stone
walls all around. That was when the panic
began for real.

The tourists screamed and scattered, some

of them diving into the shop or behind the
information desks. A group of primary
school students, who had just been visiting
the Egyptian mummies, crouched down be-
side the stairs, cowering together. An Amer-
ican woman, standing by herself, began to

34/667

scream. The British Museum guards, many
of them old and long retired from their real
careers, remained frozen to the spot, com-
pletely unprepared for an event like this.
Meanwhile, Kurst stepped over the dead
man and continued to move slowly toward
the main door.

Of course he hadn’t come to the museum

alone. Scorpia would not have risked the
freedom of its chief executive, even for a mil-
lion dollars, and its agents surrounded him
on all sides. As the other MI6 agents closed
in from every direction, still unsure what had
happened but knowing that all the rules had
changed, they were met by a hail of machine-
gun fire. The bearded student who had been
examining the postcards had reached into
his backpack and drawn out a miniature ma-
chine gun with folding shoulder stock and
was spraying the hall with bullets. An MI6
man, halfway down the west stairs, threw his
arms back in surprise, then jerked forward

35/667

and tumbled down. The American woman
was still screaming. The primary school chil-
dren were crying in terror. All the alarms in
the building had gone off. There were people
running in every direction.

The Japanese man who had been photo-
graphing his wife threw his camera on the
floor and it exploded with a soft woomph, re-
leasing thick, dark green fumes into the air.
In seconds, Kurst had disappeared. The
Great Court had become a battle zone. Two
MI6 men slid to a halt, trying to peer
through the smoke. There was a loud crack,
then another, and they fell to the ground.
They had been shot in the legs by the Japan-
ese woman, who had produced a pearl-
handled Nambu pistol from her handbag.

Meanwhile, holding a handkerchief across
his face, Kurst had reached the main doors.
There had been little security when he came
in. There was none as he left. Out of the
corner of his eye he saw an MI6 agent try to

36/667

rush him, then fall back as he was grabbed
by his personal bodyguard, the black man
with the notebook whom he had registered
on his way to the Elgin marbles. The human
neck makes an unmistakable sound when it
is snapped, and he heard it now. The agent
slumped to the ground. Kurst walked out in-
to the fresh air.

There were people running between the

pillars, tumbling down the steps, and hurling
themselves across the open area in front of
the building. Already the police were on their
way, their sirens growing in volume as they
came together from different parts of the
city. Kurst’s limousine was waiting for him at
the gate. But there were two men moving
purposefully toward him, both dressed in
charcoal gray suits and sunglasses. He briefly
wondered why people who worked in espion-
age had to make themselves look so obvious.
They had become aware of the chaos inside
the British Museum and were racing in.

37/667

Perhaps they hadn’t expected him to emerge
so quickly.

Kurst lifted his walking stick. It was in fact

a hollowed-out tube with a single gas-fired
bullet and an electric trigger concealed just
beneath the handle. The bullet had been spe-
cially modified. It wouldn’t just kill a man. It
would tear him in half.

He fired. The man on the left was blown

off his feet, landing in a spinning, bloody
ball. The second man froze for just one
second. It was much too long. Moving sur-
prisingly fast for someone of his age, Kurst
swung the walking stick through the air, us-
ing it like a sword. The metal casing
slammed into the agent’s throat and he
crumpled instantly. Kurst lumbered toward
the car. The passenger door was already
open and he threw himself in, slamming it
behind him. There was a series of gunshots.
But the car windows were bulletproof and
the bodywork was armor-plated. With a

38/667

screech of tires, the limousine swung out.
Another man stood in the way, his gun held
commando-style in both hands. He fired
once. The bullet slammed into the window
right in front of Kurst’s face, leaving a dent
and a spider’s web of cracks. The chauffeur
accelerated. There was a thud as the man hit
the fender and he was hurled out of the way.

Two hours later, a man in a blond wig, wear-
ing sunglasses and holding a huge bunch of
flowers, boarded the Eurostar train to Paris.
Zeljan Kurst hated these disguises, but it was
something else he had learned in his long ca-
reer. If you’re trying not to be seen, it often
helps to make yourself as prominent as pos-
sible. The flowers and the wig were ridicu-
lous, and although the police and MI6 were
looking for him all over London, they cer-
tainly wouldn’t associate them with him.
As he settled into his prebooked seat in
first class and sipped his complimentary

39/667

glass of champagne, Kurst’s mind was fo-
cused on the problem he had been given. The
shoot-out at the museum was already forgot-
ten. The question was—who would be the
best person to handle this quite interesting
business of the Elgin marbles? There were
now twelve members of Scorpia, including
him, and he mentally went over them one by
one.

Levi Kroll, the former Israeli agent who, in

a moment of carelessness, had shot out his
own eye? Mikato, the Japanese policeman
turned Yakuza gangster? Dr. Three? Or per-
haps this might be an opportunity for their
newest recruit. He had the sort of mind that
would enjoy working out a problem of this
complexity, along with the ruthlessness to
see it through to the end.

There was a blast of a whistle and the train

moved off. Kurst took out his mobile
phone—encrypted, of course—and dialed a
number. The train slid down the platform

40/667

and picked up speed, and as they left King’s
Cross International, Kurst permitted himself
the rare luxury of a smile. Yes. Razim was
perfect. He would bring his unique talents to
this new assignment. Kurst was sure of it. He
had chosen exactly the right man.

2

THE MEASUREMENT OF PAIN

“THANK YOU. THANK YOU. Thank you, my
dear Mr. Kurst. I will begin to consider the
matter at once.”

The man with the silver hair flipped shut

his mobile phone and slid it into the top
pocket of his dishdasha—the long-sleeved
white cotton dress worn by most Arab men.
He stood for a moment, savoring the air. It
was a cool night, but then of course this was
only February. Two months from now and
the temperature would rise into the eighties .
. . considerably more during the day. He
looked up at the stars. There were just a few
of them tonight, but they shone with more
intensity than any stars in the world. He

42/667
never tired of their beauty, and of course, liv-
ing here in the middle of the Sahara Desert
in Egypt, there was no light pollution and he
could see them more clearly than anywhere
else.

The sun had set two hours ago, but there
was still a deep, unearthly blue glow in the
sky on the edge of the horizon. Looking out
across the desert, he could just make out the
pale gray of the salt lakes that were spread
out all around. For this was the Siwa Oasis,
350 miles from Cairo, a place that owed its
existence to the fluke of there being water in
the desert, not just the salt lakes but fresh-
water wells and thermal springs, bubbling up
from the bowels of the earth. Ten miles
away, he could just make out the glimmering
streetlights that signaled the town of Siwa.
Apart from a few hotels, shops, and Internet
cafés, there wasn’t very much there, and the
man visited the town as seldom as possible.
Nobody from the town ever came here.

43/667

The man was standing on the parapet of a
French fort, built at the end of the eighteenth
century when Napoleon had invaded Egypt.
A few new buildings had been added more
recently, and there were signs of further con-
struction . . . scaffolding, construction equip-
ment, and a great pile of salt that had been
drawn from the lake and would be mixed
with sand to make bricks.

There was something very strange about
the compound, which stood on its own, per-
fectly square, surrounded by sand. It looked
like something out of a Hollywood movie . . .
or perhaps a mirage. First, there was the out-
er wall, not high but several feet thick, with
battlements all the way around and solid
guard towers rising up much farther at each
of the four corners. These were punctuated
by narrow, slotlike windows, making it easy
to look out but impossible to look in. The
only way into the fort was through an arched
gateway with an oak door—it was made of

44/667

whole tree trunks bound with steel and it
would have taken several men to open if it
hadn’t been electrically operated.

Inside, the fort was like an army barracks

with a dozen buildings neatly laid out around
a central well. Water, of course, was
everything in the desert. An army would be
able to survive here for months—living,
sleeping, exercising, and drilling on the
parade ground, hardly aware of the world
outside. There were two accommodation
blocks—one for officers, one for common sol-
diers—a prison block, various storerooms, a
bakery, and a chapel. All of these had been
converted with air-conditioning, hot and
cold running water, every modern comfort.
The old stables had been turned into a recre-
ation room with snooker tables and a cinema
screen. The armory still contained
weapons—though very different from the
ones used by the forces of Napoleon.

45/667

These included flamethrowers, hand gren-
ades, and even handheld rocket launchers . .
. for the man who had privately purchased
the fort and redesigned it needed to be safe,
and beneath the sun-baked bricks, the dusty
courtyard, and the ancient battlements lay
some very sophisticated equipment indeed.
Everything was powered by an electric gen-
erator housed in what had once been the
forge. A radio mast and three satellite dishes
rose above one of the towers. Television
cameras watched for any movement. At
night, infrared lights and radar scanned the
area all around. All of these were wired into
the control room, once the bakery, with a
single chimney rising above a flat roof, lead-
ing up from what had once been the bread
oven. The control room was manned twenty-
four hours a day, and nobody could enter or
leave without authorization—the main gate
could be opened only from inside. It was in
constant radio communication with the

46/667

guards on patrol. These were local men,
dressed in Bedouin style, with headdresses,
loose-fitting robes, sandals, and knives at
their belts. They also had machine guns
slung over their shoulders.

The man’s name was Abdul-Aziz Al-

Rahim, but that wasn’t what he called him-
self now. As an internationally wanted ter-
rorist and convicted war criminal, it was bet-
ter not to have any name at all. In the end, he
had jumbled up letters from his name and
come up with Razim—which was how he was
known to his friends in Scorpia. And in
truth, he had no other friends. He was un-
married. Sometimes he would spend a whole
month without speaking to anyone at all. But
Razim didn’t mind. In fact, he preferred it
that way.

Razim was not an Egyptian. He had been

born forty-five years ago in the town of
Tikrit, in Iraq. His father was a university
professor. His mother had studied Arabic

47/667

literature at the University of Cambridge and
had herself become a well-known writer and
poet. Abdul-Aziz (the name means “servant
of the powerful” in Arabic) was one of two
children—he had an older sister named
Rima. The family lived together in one of the
oldest houses of the city, a narrow, white
brick building constructed around a central
courtyard packed with flowers and plants
and with a fountain playing in the middle.

From the very start, Razim was a difficult

child. His father used to joke that he had
been born in a sandstorm and that some of
the sand must have gotten into his blood. As
a baby, he never smiled or gurgled but lay
sullenly in his cot as if wondering how he
had got there and how, perhaps, he might es-
cape. As soon as he learned to walk, he tried
to run away. Nannies never stayed long in
the household. Razim’s temper tantrums
drove three of them away. The fourth left
with a pair of nail scissors driven into her

48/667

thigh after she had told him off for teasing
his sister.

At least he did well at school . . . indeed,

his teachers thought that he was a genius. He
came top in every subject and by the age of
twelve was almost fluent in three languages.
It was hardly surprising that he didn’t get
along with the other children. Even then
Razim had no friends, but he preferred it
that way. He was a quiet, solitary boy, and he
had already come to realize that there was
something different about him, even though
he wasn’t quite sure what it was. Eventually,
though, after considerable thought, he man-
aged to work it out. He had no emotions.
Nothing scared him or upset him. Nothing
made him particularly happy either. There
was no food that he particularly enjoyed. It
was as if the whole of life had been put under
a laboratory slide and he was the scientist ex-
amining it. Every day for him was the same.
He didn’t feel anything.

49/667

He decided to put this to the test. His par-

ents had bought him a pet, a scruffy mon-
grel, when he was small and it had always
been his companion. So one day he took it
down to the orchard behind his parents’
house and strangled it, just to see how he
felt. It didn’t bother him at all. His mother
and father wondered about the missing dog,
and they also noticed the scratches on
Razim’s hands and arms, but they accepted
his explanation that he had brushed against
a barbed-wire fence. They were both intelli-
gent people, but no parent wants to think the
worst of their child, and the truth was that
Razim was still doing brilliantly at school. He
ate his meals with them and came with them
to the mosque for family prayers. He clearly
didn’t like his sister but he was polite to her.
What more could they ask?

In 1979, the history of Iraq changed when
Saddam Hussein came to power. One of his
first acts as president was to arrest sixty-

50/667

eight members of his party and accuse them
of treason. Twenty-two of them were ex-
ecuted. The other forty-six were forced to
make up the firing squads. When Razim
heard about this little twist of cruelty, he
realized that his country had been taken over
by a man who was very close to his own
heart. He began to think how he might get to
meet him. Could he find a way into the cor-
ridors of power?

As it happened, the opportunity arose very

quickly. It was obvious to many people in
Iraq that Saddam was brutal, mad, and dan-
gerous, and in the late summer of that same
year, Razim’s parents held a secret meeting
in their house with other academics, writers,
and well-placed friends to discuss how they
might get rid of him. How were they to know
that Razim was recording the entire conver-
sation on a tape recorder that they had given
him for his fourteenth birthday? The next
day, he skipped school and went instead to

51/667

the local police, taking the evidence with
him.

Revenge came like a desert storm. Razim’s
parents were arrested and shot without even
the benefit of a trial. Razim never found out
what happened to his seventeen-year-old sis-
ter—nor did he care. The last he saw of her,
she was being dragged screaming from the
house by four laughing policemen who threw
her into the back of a van. Everyone who had
attended the meeting was arrested. None of
them was ever seen again.

As a reward for his loyalty, the local chief
of police invited Razim—who was of course
an orphan now—to see him in his office
above the jail near the Farouk Palace. Sitting
behind his desk, with his belly rising above
it, the police chief examined the boy who had
been brought to him. He did not like what he
saw. Razim was small for his age and very
slender, more like a girl than a boy. His hair
was neatly cut in a fringe and he was wearing

52/667

his school uniform. But what troubled him
was the boy’s complete lack of expression.
He had the face of a waxwork, eyes that
could have been made of glass. There was no
warmth or curiosity. There was nothing at
all.

Even so, he tried to be polite. “You have
been of great service to your country,” he
began. “Your parents and their friends were
traitors. You were right to do what you did.”

The boy didn’t respond.
“What would you like to happen to you

now?”

“I thought I might join the police,” Razim

said. “I’m sure you have lots of people you
have to kill. I’d like to help.”

The police chief had children of his own,
and this boy, whose feet barely reached the
floor, sickened him. “You’re too young to join
the police,” he said.

“I don’t want to go back to school. It’s

boring.”

“I think it would be better if you left

53/667

Tikrit.”

For a brief moment, the police chief was
tempted to take out his gun and shoot the
child. There was no particular reason. He
would have felt exactly the same if he had
found himself faced with a scorpion or a
poisonous snake. He had to hold on to his
hand to prevent it from dropping down to
the holster at his belt. “We will arrange for
you to be fostered,” he said. “Somewhere far
away.”

“Don’t I get a reward?”
“It will come to you. In time.”
In the end, Razim was sent to live with a
wealthy family, distant relatives of the pres-
ident, in Tehran. The family despised him on
first sight but knew better than to ask any
questions, and from this moment on he
began to thrive. He continued to do bril-
liantly at school and at seventeen became the
youngest student to enter the College of

54/667

Engineering at Amir Adaad Campus, part of
the University of Tehran. By now he had
changed his mind about his future. He would
use his scientific skills to become a weapons
designer. It was well known that Saddam
Hussein was developing biological and
chemical weapons. Razim himself had a keen
interest in small arms. In his first term at
university, he had won a commendation for a
twenty-page essay on the Yugoslavian
Zastava M70, the assault rifle that, he was
told, had been used to kill his parents. His
dream was that he might one day invent a
new weapon that he would name after
himself.

It wasn’t going to happen. On Razim’s
eighteenth birthday, he received a letter
printed on official government paper. It
turned out that someone high up hadn’t for-
gotten the teenager who had once betrayed
his entire family. Razim was to leave the uni-
versity immediately. He was being invited

55/667

(and it wasn’t an invitation that anyone
could refuse) to join the Mukhabarat. He was
to report to their offices the next day.

The Mukhabarat. Iraq’s dreaded secret in-
telligence service. Razim read the letter with
the faint twinge of something that might ac-
tually have been pleasure. He had heard the
horror stories about the organization and he
knew that it was work to which he was
ideally suited. He packed immediately and
left at six o’clock the next morning. Nobody
at the university even noticed he had gone.

For the next twenty years, Razim dis-

covered the pleasure of being feared. Actu-
ally, it was more than that. Anyone who met
him knew that he had absolute power over
their life or death and that with one snap of
his fingers they would never be seen again. If
he were to point to a picture or a valuable
vase in a man’s house, the object would be
waiting at the door for him to take with him
when he left. The same was true for the

56/667
man’s wife or son. Razim boasted that he had
so many enemies that he could have bathed
daily in their blood. The rumor in Tehran
was that he actually did.

His power increased. Soon he had a house
the size of a palace, filled with servants who
fell silent and looked away when he came in-
to the room. He had barely grown at all. He
was still the same size and shape as a school-
boy, but rather curiously, his hair had turned
silver while he was in his twenties, making
him look both very old and very young at the
same time. He also wore round, wire-framed
glasses, and one of his officers had once
joked that he looked like a Middle Eastern
Harry Potter. Razim had enjoyed the joke.
He was almost smiling as he stabbed the of-
ficer nine times with a paper knife.

And then came the Iraq war of 2003 and

the invasion by the American and British
forces. Unlike so many of Saddam’s inner
circle, Razim could see which way the wind

57/667

was blowing and made plans to save himself.
The night before the bombing of Baghdad, he
slipped out of the country on the private
eight-seater Beechjet 400 that actually be-
longed to the president’s younger brother,
flying over the border into Saudi Arabia. He
took with him all the treasures he could carry
. . . artwork, diamonds, gold coins, and inter-
national bonds. All these would be easier to
trade than cash.

He settled in Riyadh and waited for the
war to end, which it did—as he had expec-
ted—very quickly. It was clear to him that he
couldn’t return to Iraq, not while it was be-
ing occupied by the British and American
forces, but using the connections he had
made while he was with the Mukhabarat, he
contacted the local recruiting officer for Al-
Qaeda and soon found himself in charge of
his own extensive terrorist cell. He wasn’t
paid, of course, but then he didn’t need to be.
He was a wealthy man. Nor was he

58/667

interested in religion or politics. For him,
terrorism was like a jigsaw puzzle. You have
an embassy and a bomb. How do you fit one
into the other to create the most unforget-
table picture? It was a challenge that stimu-
lated his mind, and he helped plan more
than a dozen attacks in Europe and America,
carefully examining the results on the fifty-
five-inch plasma screen he’d had installed in
his luxurious house.

This successful period in his life came to

an end when his commanding officer sugges-
ted that, to show his devotion to the Islamic
cause, he might like to become a suicide
bomber himself. Razim was given a belt
filled with high explosive and shown how to
wrap it around his stomach and set it off
with a single button on his mobile phone. He
would be smuggled into Pakistan and
dropped off at a central market. From there,
it would be a short step to Paradise.

59/667

Razim thought about all this for a few

minutes, then used the explosive to blow up
his commanding officer. It was time to move
again. By now, the British and Americans
were on his trail. Saddam had been hanged.
Saddam’s sons had been shot. Razim had no
doubt that one or another of these fates
would be waiting for him if he was ever
caught . . . unless, that is, Al-Qaeda found
him first. It really was quite annoying to have
so many enemies. He would just have to find
another city where he could start his life
again.

He chose Cairo. With a population of sev-
en million crammed into eighty-three square
miles, he would be completely invisible. He
briefly considered plastic surgery. There
were plenty of clinics in the backstreets of
West Zamalek, a high-rise area of the city on
the edge of the Nile, and if you paid enough,
nobody would ask any questions. But in fact
very few people knew what he looked like.

60/667

He had taken great care that this should be
the case, always covering his head with the
traditional ghutra, or Arab scarf. When he
was in Western dress, he had worn
sunglasses and a baseball cap pulled down
low. He decided that surgery would not be
needed. He lived quietly, making sure he
didn’t attract any attention. And he waited
for the next opportunity to reveal itself, as he
was sure it would.

He still owned a penthouse apartment in
the center of Cairo and a summerhouse in
the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh. But
his favorite home was where he was now,
this long-forgotten fort lost in 1.2 million
square miles of sand. This was where he
came to get away from the crowds. It was
where he felt more secure. And it was a per-
fect setting, too, for the series of experiments
in which he was now engaged.

There was a rope bridge that crossed from
one side of the complex to the other. Razim

61/667

had ordered it to be installed to save him
walking all the way around. He crossed it
now, putting out two hands to steady himself
as it swayed beneath his feet. The salt pile
was right beneath him now, and he watched
as one of the guards emptied a wheelbarrow,
adding to the heap. Razim had insisted that
the new building be done in the traditional
Berber style, mixing salt with sand. It was
slow—but it felt right.

Everything was quiet. The desert had

settled for the night. He reached the other
end of the bridge and walked along the op-
posite parapet until he came to a stone stair-
case that led back down to ground level. He
took it. A second guard stood respectfully to
attention as he walked past.

Razim still didn’t know how Scorpia had
managed to track him down. At first it had
worried him. If they could find him, then any
one of the world’s intelligence agencies
might follow. But he had soon realized that

62/667

Scorpia was an organization like no other.
After all, by and large the police and security
services do not threaten murder or violence
to get the information they want. And in the
end, he was glad that they had decided to
seek him out. They were offering exactly the
sort of work that interested him along with
the promise of enormous sums of money.
The two of them really were made for each
other.

Take this new assignment, the first he

would handle as project leader. It was
already a fascinating challenge: how to re-
turn the Elgin marbles to Greece. Like Zeljan
Kurst, Razim had already dismissed the idea
of stealing them, although that would surely
have been easy enough. When was the last
time anyone had checked security at the Brit-
ish Museum? Many of the roofs were made
of glass and the security staff, low paid and
lazy, could be either bribed or replaced. But
that wouldn’t work. If the marbles were ever

63/667

to be seen in public again, then they would
have to be returned legally, with the full co-
operation of the British government. So what
it came down to was a question of leverage.
How could Scorpia persuade them to do
something that they had always refused to
do?

He took out a pack of cigarettes and lit

one. He smoked Black Devil cigarettes, man-
ufactured in China and sold by the long-es-
tablished firm of Heupink and Bloemen in
the Netherlands. He had the packs specially
modified so that they no longer warned him
that he would quite probably die of cancer.
Razim didn’t really care when he died—or
how. But he didn’t like being bossed around
by governments. He sucked in, letting the
sweet, slightly vanilla taste of the tobacco roll
around his tongue.

Small clouds of dust rose around his feet

as he crossed the courtyard. The beam of the
spotlight swept the ground just ahead. Still

64/667

smoking, he went into a circular building
with a domed roof and a tower. This had
once been a chapel. Razim had found faded
pictures of various saints on some of the
walls and there was even a stained-glass win-
dow—the only glass in the entire place. Per-
haps French soldiers had come here once to
pray that they would soon be sent home.
Razim had smashed the window and painted
over the frescoes. They were of no interest to
him. He had, of course, never believed in
God.

The interior was brightly lit and kept at a
pleasant temperature by a sophisticated air-
conditioning system. The walls were now all
white and purposefully thick, to keep out the
heat. There were machines everywhere: com-
puters, television monitors, different-sized
boxes with dials and gauges. In the middle of
all this, trapped in a pool of brilliant light, a
man sat in a leather dentist’s chair, tied to it
by soft cords around his ankles and wrists.

65/667

The man was wearing only boxer shorts.
Dozens of wires had been attached to
him—to his head, his chest, his pulse, his ab-
domen—held in place by sticky tape. By a
happy coincidence, the man was French. He
was about thirty years old and he was trying
not to look afraid. He was failing.

Razim knew his name. It was Luc Fontaine

and he worked for the DGSE, which is the
French intelligence agency dealing in extern-
al security. The man was, in other words, a
secret agent, a spy. Razim had always known
that foreign investigators would come look-
ing for him and he therefore kept a careful
lookout for them. This one had actually got-
ten closer than many. He had been picked up
asking questions in the central market— or
souk—knocked out and then brought here.
He was still pretending to be a tourist, but
only halfheartedly. By now he knew that he
was in the hands of a man who did not make
mistakes.

66/667

There was a trolley covered with a white

cloth next to the dentist’s chair. Razim
wheeled it around and uncovered it to reveal
a series of knives lined up in neat rows, each
one a different shape and size, gleaming in
the harsh light. There were other instru-
ments too: swabs and silver bowls, hypo-
dermic syringes, vials containing liquids that
were colorless but somehow didn’t look like
water. Fontaine saw this. He tried not to
show any emotion. But his naked skin
crawled.

Razim pulled up a stool and sat down. He

drew on the cigarette. The tip glowed.

“What do you want?” Fontaine asked. He

spoke in French. His voice was hoarse.

Razim didn’t answer.
“I’m not going to tell you anything.” The
secret agent had dropped the pretense that
he was a tourist. He knew there was no
longer any point in it.

67/667

“And I am not going to ask you anything,”
Razim replied. His French was excellent. It
was one of the languages he had learned at
school. “You have no information that I wish
to know.”

“Then why am I here?” The young man

flexed his arms, the muscles rising, but the
cords held fast.

“I will tell you.” Razim tapped ash into one
of the bowls. “I have been many things in my
life,” he said, “but when I set out, I was an
engineer. That is how I was trained. Science,
in its many varieties, has always been an in-
terest of mine. And you should be glad that
you are here with me tonight, Luc. Do you
mind if I call you Luc? I am pursuing a pro-
ject that will be of great benefit to the world,
and fate has chosen you to help me.”

“My people know I’m here.”
“Nobody knows you are here. Even you do

not know where you are. Please try not to
interrupt.”

Razim put out his cigarette. He licked his

68/667

lips.

“It occurred to me some years ago that
everything in this world is measured and
that many of these measurements have been
named after the great engineers. The most
obvious example is the watt, which measures
electricity, and which was named after
James Watt, the inventor of the modern
steam engine. Joule and Newton were both
physicists and have been immortalized in the
measurement of energy . . . joules and new-
tons. Every day we measure the atmospheric
heat in either Fahrenheit or Celsius. The first
was a German physicist, the second a
Swedish astronomer.

“We measure distance and height and

speed and brightness. If you wish to buy any-
thing from a shoe to a sheet of paper, you ask
for it by size. There are measuring units that
many people have never heard of. Can you
tell me what a pyron is? Or a palmo? Or a

69/667
petaflop? But here is the strange thing. There
has never been a measurement for
something we experience almost every day of
our lives.

“There has never been a measurement for

pain.

“Can you imagine how useful it would be if
you went to the dentist and he was able to re-
assure you? ‘Don’t worry, my dear fellow,
this is going to hurt only two and a half
units.’ Or if you went to the doctor with a
damaged knee and were able to tell him that
it hurt three units down here—but seven-
point-five units up here, above the knee? Of
course, it is very difficult to measure pain. It
all depends on how our nerves react and
what the stimulus is—the knife, electricity,
fire, acid—that has caused the pain. But I
still believe it is possible to develop a univer-
sal scale. And I very much hope that one day
the unit of pain will indeed be named after
me. The Razim. And people will be able to

70/667

say exactly how many Razims will result in
certain death.”

Fontaine was staring at Razim as if seeing

him for the first time. “You’re mad,” he
whispered.

“All the great inventors have a certain
madness,” Razim agreed. “They said the
same of Galileo and Einstein. It is what I
would expect you to say.”

“Please . . .”
“I would also expect you to beg. But I’m

afraid it will do you no good.”

Razim leaned over the trolley and con-

sidered. It would be interesting to see how
long this Frenchman would survive. Of
course, for the sake of accuracy, he would
have to experiment on women. And if one
ever came his way, a teenager would be use-
ful too. Everybody reacts to pain in different
ways and he needed to examine the full spec-
trum. He made his decision and chose an
instrument.

Moments later, the needles on the various

monitors leapt forward as the first screams
rang out into the night.

71/667

3

FLY-BY-NIGHT

THE TOURIST BOAT WAS MOORED at the
Quai de la Loire, on the very western edge of
the city. But the people who stepped on
board four months later on a bright after-
noon in June most definitely were not
tourists.

It had been Max Grendel, the oldest mem-

ber of Scorpia, who had decided that they
should have a floating office in Paris. This
had been one of the last decisions he had
made, as he had died a few months later,
stung to death in a gondola in Venice. The
bateau-mouche—literally “fly boat”—looked
like any one of the pleasure craft gliding up
and down the river. It was long and narrow

73/667

with a flat bottom and a low canopy made al-
most entirely of glass to give its passengers
the best possible views. Inside, however, it
was very different. Instead of rows of seating
for two or three hundred sightseers, there
was a single conference table and twelve
chairs. A soundproof wall separated this area
from the cabin where the captain and the
first mate stood at the controls. The rest of
the crew, four men in their twenties, stayed
on the deck. They were not allowed to look
into the cabin. They stood as still as the
statues that lined the bridges, their eyes fixed
on both banks of the river, searching for any
movement that might be construed as enemy
action.

Grendel’s idea wasn’t quite as odd as it

might seem. Unlike a building, a boat would
be impossible to bug, particularly as it was
kept under twenty-four-hour guard and
thoroughly swept before any meeting. Also,
unlike a building, it could move, so anyone

74/667

trying to eavesdrop on what was being said
would have to move too, at equal speed. And
as the ship was fitted with a Ruston 12RK
diesel engine stolen from a Royal Navy River
Class Patrol Vessel, that might be very fast
indeed. Finally, should a police launch at-
tempt to come close, there was a point-de-
fense weapon system based on the famous
Goalkeeper technology developed by the
Dutch, with autocannon and advanced radar
concealed beneath false panels on the fore-
deck. This was capable of firing seventy
rounds per second at a distance of up to 1500
meters. If necessary, Scorpia was both will-
ing and able to start a small war in the heart
of Paris.

The ship was called Le Débiteur, which

might be translated as “someone who leaves
without paying their debts.” Such people
used to be called fly-by-nights.

As Grendel had argued, there would be
something very calming about discussing

75/667

business while cruising past some of the
most beautiful buildings in Europe, particu-
larly when the business was as dangerous as
theirs.

Sabotage. Corruption. Intelligence. And

assassination. These were the four activities
that had given Scorpia its name. It was actu-
ally here in Paris that it had been formed, a
collection of intelligence agents from around
the world who had seen that their services
might no longer be needed after the end of
the Cold War and who had decided to go into
business for themselves. It had been a wise
move. Secret agents are generally very badly
paid. For example, the head of MI5 in Eng-
land receives only two hundred thousand a
year—a tiny amount compared with any in-
vestment banker. Every member of Scorpia
had multiplied his annual income by a factor
of ten. And none of them paid any tax.

There were now twelve of them and they

were all men. There had once been a woman

76/667

on the executive committee, but she had
been killed in London and had never been
replaced. Altogether, six of them had
died—one from natural causes. The current
chief executive was Zeljan Kurst, sitting at
one end of the table in a charcoal gray suit,
white shirt, and black tie. As he had ex-
plained in London, Scorpia had recently
taken on four new recruits—although they
had been forced to look outside the intelli-
gence community. There was a ginger-haired
Irishman who called himself Seamus and
had been with the IRA. A pair of twin broth-
ers had been brought in from the Italian
mafia. And finally there was Razim.

Scorpia was on the way up. That was the
message they wanted to make clear to the
world. They were taking back the control
they should never have lost.

The twelve executives arrived individually
and at five-minute intervals, some in chauf-
feured cars, some on foot, one even on a

77/667

bicycle. Only Giovanni and Eduardo Grim-
aldi, the twins, arrived together, but then, in
twenty-five years they had never spent a
minute apart. At exactly three o’clock, the
deckhands lifted the anchor. The captain
pushed forward on the throttle and Le
Débiteur slipped out onto the river, begin-
ning its journey east toward the Eiffel Tower
and Notre Dame.

Zeljan Kurst waited until they were on
their way before he spoke. He didn’t greet
anyone by name. Such matters were a waste
of words. Nor did he offer anyone a drink,
not even a glass of water. None of these
people trusted each other, so they would only
have refused it anyway. If he had any recol-
lection of his narrow escape in London, he
didn’t show it. His eyes were heavy. He al-
most looked bored.

“Good day to you, gentlemen,” he began.
As usual, the English language sounded pe-
culiarly ugly coming out of his lips, but it had

78/667

long since been agreed that English was the
only language they would speak. “We have
come together today to agree upon our tac-
tics for an operation that we have called
Horseman and that will earn us the sum of
forty million dollars when it is successfully
completed. As you all know, I have given the
management of this business to Mr. Razim.”
Kurst glanced sideways. As he had expec-

ted, there was a brief flash of anger in the
single eye of the Israeli agent, Levi Kroll.
This was the third time he had been passed
over for project command. Nobody else had
noticed. Their attention was fixed on the
man with the silver hair and the round spec-
tacles who had been placed, not by accident,
at the head of the table.

“I will add only that the first installment of

the money has been paid into our Cayman
Islands account by our client, Ariston Xeno-
polos,” Kurst continued. “We will receive the

79/667

full amount on the same day that the so-
called Elgin marbles land on Greek soil.”

“How is Ariston?” Dr. Three asked. He was

very small, like many Chinese men, and as
the years went by he seemed to be getting
smaller. He had recently completed a two-
thousand-page encyclopedia on the subject
of torture. The writing had exhausted him al-
though he had enjoyed the research.

“He is critically ill,” Kurst replied. “Ac-

cording to his doctors, he should already be
dead.”

“And if he dies before our work is

complete?”

“The money will still be paid.” Kurst

blinked heavily, as if to cut off any further
discussion. “But it is not just a question of
money for us,” he went on. “This is a matter
of great importance. We have endured two
failures in a single year . . . unheard of in our
long history. And I have heard unpleasant
whispers, gentlemen. There are some

80/667

governments and intelligence agencies that
no longer trust us with their assignments.
The purchase of nuclear material for Iran. A
terrorist atrocity in Tel Aviv. The collapse of
the banking system in Singapore. Just three
recent operations that should have come to
us but instead have been given to other or-
ganizations. We have to prove to our clients
that we are back at full strength—and this is
our opportunity! The work that we begin
here today will have echoes that will be
heard and felt throughout the world.”

He nodded in the direction of Razim.

“Please. Tell the committee what you have
planned.”

“With great pleasure, Mr. Kurst.” Razim
licked his lips. Pleasure was not a word he
used often. It was not an emotion that was
familiar to him. And yet he had been looking
forward to this moment for a long time, and
he felt something close to a thrill to be the
one holding the reins, to be in command of

81/667
the entire executive body of Scorpia. “The El-
gin marbles,” he muttered, his voice barely
audible above the drone of the motor. “The
British government has refused, time and
again, to hand them back. Why? Because
they are selfish and arrogant. And the ques-
tion I have been asking myself for the last
few months is, what will make them over-
come their selfishness and arrogance? What
will make them change their mind? And the
answer I have come up with is a single word.
Fear.

“Somehow we have to arrange matters so

that they have no choice. We have to put
them in a position where they must return
the sculptures . . . where their survival de-
pends on it. But at the same time, it has to be
done very delicately. For example, we could
steal a nuclear device and threaten to set it
off in the heart of London if they did not
comply with our wishes. But this would not
be easy and it might not even work. They

82/667

might not believe us. They might, as it were,
call our bluff. And it is not our task to turn
the British into victims, no matter how pleas-
ant the thought. It will suit our purposes
more if they are hated. They are thieves and
aggressors. They deserve the condemnation
of every civilized country.”

Razim drew a breath. There were twenty-

one eyes in the room and they were all
turned on him. Outside, the boat was cutting
through the bright water, heading toward a
bend in the river with the Eiffel Tower and
the Fields of Mars looming up on the right.
They passed underneath a bridge, the Pont
d’Iéna, and a bar of shadow swept briefly
across the glass ceiling.

“I do not believe violence, or the threat of

violence, is the answer,” Razim went on. “But
suppose we were to arrange a trap for them.
Imagine that we were to arrange a scandal so
dark and so shocking that it would destroy
their reputation for decades to come. No

83/667

countries would do business with them. The
Americans would turn their backs on them.
The European community already hates
them, but this would be the final straw.
Nobody would trust them. Suddenly, Great
Britain would be a very small and lonely is-
land indeed. Imagine all that, my friends,
and ask yourselves what the British govern-
ment would do to avoid it. Do you think, per-
haps, they would agree to empty one room in
a stupid museum in the middle of London?
Would they cheerfully send a collection of
old statues back to their rightful owners? I
think they would. I really think they would.”
Razim longed for a cigarette. He could feel

the pack pressing inside his jacket pock-
et—for today he was wearing European
dress—but he dared not reach for it. It wasn’t
that smoking was forbidden. It was just that
it might be considered a weakness.

“I have already put into operation a plan
that will achieve all this,” he said. “It is the

84/667

sort of exercise that carries the unmistakable
stamp and authority of Scorpia. And from
what I have been told, I think it will give
everyone around this table a great deal of
personal satisfaction because, gentlemen,
what I have in mind involves a young boy . .
.”

He paused for effect.
“The boy’s name is Alex Rider.”
There was a moment of perfect silence.
Even the engines seemed to have stopped.
The last two words seemed to have had a
paralyzing effect on at least half the people in
the cabin.

“Alex Rider?” Sitting next to Kroll, the
Japanese man called Mr. Mikato raised a
thumb to his lips and bit at the nail. As he
did so, he exposed the diamond set in his
front tooth. Mikato was a member of the
criminal organization known as the Yakuza
and had tattooed the names of every man he
had killed across his body. Unfortunately, he

85/667

had run out of space. “We have encountered
this boy twice,” he began. “We even tried to
kill him with a bullet fired into his heart. The
sniper that we hired had never failed—”

“Please, hear me out,” Razim interrupted.

“I have given the matter a great deal of
thought.” Suddenly he decided—to hell with
it. He took out his pack of Black Devils and
lit one with a solid gold lighter. Smoke curled
in front of his face, reflected in the two
circles of his glasses.

“I am perfectly aware that Alex Rider has,
incredibly, gotten the better of this organiza-
tion on two occasions,” he said. “There was a
fairly simple affair involving the creation of a
tsunami to strike the coast of Australia. And
before that, the late Mrs. Rothman was re-
sponsible for the operation called Invisible
Sword. This was a secret weapon using
nanoshells with a cyanide core. The plan was
to poison every child in Britain.”

86/667
“We do not need to discuss these matters!”

There was a Frenchman at the table, a man
with a neat gray beard and the long, slender
fingers of a pianist. He was rolling his
knuckles across the wooden surface, a sign of
his irritation.

“But we do need to discuss them, Mon-
sieur Duval,” Razim replied. “How can we
understand our one weakness if we don’t ex-
amine it?” He waved a hand. “There is abso-
lutely nothing special about this child except
that he is a child. That’s the reason why he
has been so useful to MI6. Oh yes, he re-
ceived some training from his uncle, who
was a spy himself before he was killed. But
do you really think a basic knowledge of kar-
ate and the ability to speak a few foreign lan-
guages were the reasons he managed to de-
feat you?

“That’s nonsense! Alex Rider won because
you underestimated him. Winston Yu should
have shot him when he had the chance. And

87/667

Mrs. Rothman too. Maybe they hesitated be-
cause he was so young, but that was his
strength. He was the world’s most unlikely
spy. It didn’t matter if it was the island of
Skeleton Key or Sayle Enterprises in Corn-
wall, nobody looked at him twice. That was
their mistake.”

“And our mistake . . . ,” Kroll began. He

had been listening to all this in growing dis-
comfort. Alone at the table, he was allowing
his emotions to get the better of him. Zeljan
Kurst had noticed this. It was what he had
expected.

“Let me finish!” Razim cut him off. “I have
done a great deal of research into this child. I
managed to see a copy of a report prepared
by a journalist last year and it confirmed
what I had already found out for myself. On
at least six occasions—it may be more—he
was employed by the Special Operations Di-
vision of MI6. Gentlemen, I ask you to con-
sider the implications.

88/667

“Everyone in this room knows only too

well that secret agents—spies—aren’t really
heroes. The work they do is often dirty and
unpleasant. They kill people who have to be
killed and they do it without a second
thought. They have no pity and no sense of
shame. They share the sorts of secrets that
nobody else wants to know. Do spies have
friends? Of course not. Nobody in their right
mind would want to get close to them. They
cannot be trusted.

“So what would happen if it was dis-

covered that MI6 had recruited a fourteen-
year-old schoolboy! Too young to vote. Too
young to smoke or get married. But old
enough to be sent to foreign countries, to get
mixed up in international politics, terrorism,
and murder! What would that say about that
country’s government—or its secret service?

“And let us take it one step further. Sup-

pose the boy was sent on a mission that went
horribly wrong. But this time it wasn’t

89/667

something brave or clever. He wasn’t trying
to save the world from some madman like
Damian Cray. He wasn’t protecting British
children from a lethal virus hidden inside a
computer. No. This time, he was involved in
something that the entire world would con-
demn.” As Razim spoke, some of the people
around the table were becoming more alert,
nodding as they followed the thread of what
he was saying. “And let us also imagine that
during the course of this mission, the boy
was actually killed.” This brought smiles and
a few murmurs of approval. “Suddenly we
have a situation. A fourteen-year-old is shot
to death by the police in the streets of a ma-
jor city. There are documents in his pockets.
Perhaps he is carrying a gun that can be
traced back to London. All the evidence
proves, beyond any doubt, that he was work-
ing for MI6. Think for a minute what the res-
ult of all this would be.”

90/667

“It would be covered up,” Mr. Mikato said.
“There isn’t a newspaper that would dare to
print such a story.”

“Quite possibly. But we would have all the

evidence. Scorpia would have collected e-
mails, phone intercepts, photographs, voice
recordings. We would have in our hands a
bomb that we could detonate at any time.
And the result would be that the reputation
of the British government would be des-
troyed. It would be forced to dismantle its
own secret service. The prime minister
would resign. And no civilized country would
want to do business with Britain for decades
to come.”

There was a long silence. By now Le

Débiteur had passed the Eiffel Tower and
turned the corner past the Quai d’Orsay. If
anyone on the boat had looked out the win-
dow, they would have seen the gardens of the
Tuileries stretching out on the right bank
with the Louvre Museum just beyond. They

91/667

would have seen couples strolling on the
paths between shrubs and fountains that had
been arranged so perfectly that it was as if
they had been designed by a mathematician
rather than a gardener. But nobody was in-
terested in the view. They were all focused on
Razim, turning over what he had just said.

“Let me get this straight . . .” The man who
had spoken was fair haired, dressed casually
in jeans and an open-neck shirt. His name
was Brendan Chase and he had once been
the paymaster for ASIS—the Australian
Secret Intelligence Service—until one after-
noon when, after a drinking session, he had
boarded a plane with four hundred thousand
dollars of his agency’s money stuffed into his
backpack. “Somehow you’re going to per-
suade MI6 to send Alex Rider on a mission.
You’re going to make sure that the mission
goes wrong and the boy is killed. Well, I’m
with you there. If you want a volunteer, I’ll
be glad to fire the bullet myself. You’re then

92/667

going to blackmail them. We have all the
evidence. We have the photographs and the
recordings. We’ll make them public unless
you persuade your government to send the
Elgin marbles back to Greece. Is that about
it?”

“You have expressed it with perfect clarity,

Mr. Chase.”

“Okay. But this is what I don’t understand.

How are you going to do it? These photo-
graphs, for example. Are you going to forge
them? They’ll have to be pretty good if
they’re going to stand up to examination.”

“I don’t intend to forge anything.”
“So how are you going to get the British

secret service to play along?”

Razim tapped ash onto the surface of the
table. His fingernail was stained yellow with
nicotine. “Any forgery is out of the question,”
he continued. “We have to be cleverer than
that. But actually I believe that it will be per-
fectly possible for us to arrange all the pieces

93/667

on the board so that we control the entire
game. At the moment, gentlemen, we have
the upper hand. British intelligence has no
idea of our intentions. And the truth is, they
are a great deal less intelligent than they
might believe. Alan Blunt has been in charge
for too long. The same is true of his deputy,
Mrs. Jones. We have extensive files on the
two of them and I have been examining them
closely. There are certain patterns of behavi-
or. That is to say, they have become predict-
able. I think that it will be fairly simple to
manipulate them. We will create a trap. And
with a little nudging and pushing, they will
fall right into it.”

“Alex Rider is fifteen years old now,” Mr.

Mikato said. He had taken out a handker-
chief and was fanning it across his face. He
eyed the cigarette with distaste. “As far as we
know, MI6 is no longer using him. Do you
really believe that you can persuade them to
involve him again?”

94/667

“Certainly.” Razim dropped the cigarette
and ground it out on the wooden floor. “All
we have to do is create the circumstances
that will steer them toward that decision.”

“I heard that he refused to work for them

again,” Dr. Three said.

“Alex Rider never had any real choice in

the matter. He never intended to be a spy in
the first place, but he’s been too valuable for
MI6 to let him go. What this means is that
we don’t actually have to go anywhere near
him. If we provide them with the right sort of
bait, MI6 will do our work for us. They’re the
ones we have to target.”

“What bait do you have in mind?” the

Frenchman asked.

Razim glanced briefly at Zeljan Kurst, as if
asking for his consent. The bald head nodded
very slightly.

“It has to be done one step at a time,”

Razim replied. “Our first objective is to get
Alex Rider out of England and into a city of

95/667

our choosing. Although he won’t be aware of
it, he will be entering a hall of mirrors, as if
in an amusement park. Every move that he
makes will be controlled. Certain doors will
be closed to him even as others open up. He
will be watched from every angle. But as I
say, we have to start with MI6. They are the
ones who will draw Alex into our trap.

“So let’s begin with the bait. Let’s say that

a dead body is found floating in the River
Thames in London. The body is that of a
wanted criminal . . . a very important crimin-
al. MI6 has been searching for him for some
time. And in his pocket is a letter or some
other document. Of course, it’s in code. MI6
sends it to their best scientists and they man-
age to work out what it means. That is when
they discover that an event is taking place in
some distant country and that it demands
their urgent attention. It is something of
world-changing importance. An agent must
be sent there at once.”

96/667

“It could be any agent,” Mikato interrup-

ted. “Why should they choose the boy?”

“Because the event involves a field of activ-

ity in which a child might pass unnoticed.
This is the key to the whole thing. I’ve
already seen it in the files. The first time MI6
used Rider, it was because he could pass
himself off as the winner of a competition in
a computer magazine—and this allowed him
to infiltrate Herod Sayle’s production plant
in Cornwall. The next time, it was the Point
Blanc Academy in France, which he could
enter as a student, the teenaged son of a
multimillionaire. Then he traveled with two
American agents to the island of Skeleton
Key. This time he was pretending to be their
son and having him with them turned them
into an ordinary, happy family. Do you see?
There is a pattern. If a teenager is required,
they have to choose Alex Rider. There is no
one else.”

97/667

Another pause. The Italian twins turned
briefly to each other and knew at once that
they had come to the same decision. Mikato’s
face relaxed and he nodded slowly. The Aus-
tralian smiled to himself.

“Lakek et hatahat sheli!” If there was si-

lent agreement in the room, it was Levi Kroll
spitting out the vile oath in Hebrew that
shattered it. Now he rose to his feet, address-
ing everyone around the table. “I do not be-
lieve what I am hearing!” he roared. His face
was livid, the veins on his cheeks standing
out. “This is madness. Listen to me. I am not
saying that this child is better than us. I do
not for a minute believe that he beat us for
any other reason than luck. However, let me
tell you now that luck has a part to play in
our activities. You can plan everything per-
fectly, but still a small, unforeseen detail can
destroy you. A chance meeting in the street.
A gun jamming. Bad weather! You know that
this is true.

98/667

“And Alex Rider has the luck of the devil

on his side. How else do you explain the
death of Julia Rothman—and Nile, her
second-in-command, for that matter? Major
Winston Yu was a genius. He ran the most
successful snakehead operation in the Far
East. But when he came up against Alex
Rider, he died and his snakehead fell apart.
There are a dozen ways we can persuade the
British to return these worthless statues! I
like the idea of a nuclear bomb. We could
kidnap a member of the royal family, maybe
one of the princes, and send him back one
piece at a time until the government agreed
to our demands. But I will not agree to take
on this child for a third time. Twice was
enough. We cannot risk a third humiliation.”

Kroll sat down, breathing heavily.
“Is there anyone else here who shares our

colleague’s concerns?” Zeljan Kurst asked.
Like poker players about to reveal their
hands, the ten other members of Scorpia

99/667

eyed each other carefully, but none of them
spoke.

“I take it from your silence, then, that you

all agree to Mr. Razim’s plan?”

“But I disagree,” Kroll insisted, not waiting

for an answer. “And by our own rules, if we
are not unanimous, we do not proceed.”

Kurst seemed to consider this. “We might

be unanimous,” he purred.

“And how might that happen, Zeljan?”

Kroll looked at him curiously, daring him to
provide an answer.

Nothing had changed. But the atmosphere

inside the conference room was suddenly
brittle. The sound of the engines shuddered
in the air.

Zeljan Kurst shrugged, his huge shoulders

rising and falling a few inches. He ignored
Kroll, turning instead to Razim. “You sugges-
ted that a criminal might be found floating in
the Thames,” he said. “Might it not be more

convincing if it were a member of the execut-
ive committee of Scorpia?”

“I think that would be admirable,” Razim

100/667

replied.

“Forget it!” Kroll was back on his feet

again, and as if by magic a gun had appeared
in his hand. It was a 9mm SP-21 military pis-
tol, designed by Israel Military Industries.
He couldn’t possibly have drawn it from a
holster. There must have been a spring
mechanism inside his jacket that had de-
livered it into his hand. He aimed it directly
at Zeljan Kurst. There was a wild look in his
one eye. “I suspected that you’ve been think-
ing of getting rid of me,” he murmured. “I’m
not surprised. I’ve given more than twenty
years to this organization and I knew the sort
of reward I could expect. The same reward as
Max Grendel. Nobody retires from Scorpia,
do they?” He laughed briefly. “Maybe some
of the rest of you should consider what fu-
ture you have here.”

101/667

The gun didn’t move, but his eye slid

briefly toward the twins and then back again.
“You’re not going to kill me, Zeljan. As you
can see, I’ve been prepared for this moment.
You think Scorpia is getting stronger? It’s
not. It’s finished and the foolishness I’ve
heard today proves it. Well, I’m going to be
the first to walk out.”

Nobody reacted. It was unheard of for a

gun to be produced in the middle of an exec-
utive meeting. But they were all confident.
Kurst must have known. He must surely
have the situation under control.

“You are going to order the captain to

bring this boat to the nearest bank and then I
am going to leave,” Kroll continued. “You
don’t need to worry about me. I have no in-
terest in you anymore. But if any of you ever
come after me, I will have stories to tell that
will have all of you in jail for longer than any
of you can possibly live. Do you understand
me?”

102/667

Zeljan Kurst’s hands were under the table.

Kroll didn’t see his right hand stretch out
and press a button in the side of his chair.

“I said . . . do you understand me?”
“I completely understand you,” Kurst

replied.

There was the soft tinkle of glass breaking.

A hole had appeared in the window just be-
hind Kroll’s head.

Kroll jerked slightly but remained stand-
ing. A look of puzzlement spread across his
face.

There was a moment’s silence. Then Kurst
spoke. “You have been shot in the back of the
neck, just above the cervical curve,” he ex-
plained. “I’m afraid your spine has been
severed and you are, effectively, already
dead.”

With an enormous effort, as if knowing
this would be the last movement he ever
made, Kroll opened his mouth. His hand,
with the gun, remained frozen.

103/667

“At this moment we are passing the Paris
Mint.” Kurst glanced out the window. Sure
enough, there was a handsome building with
arches and columns stretching for some dis-
tance along the waterfront. “I knew of course
that you were carrying a gun and suspected
you might be foolish enough to try and use it.
So I took the precaution of placing a sniper
on the roof. Can you still hear me? I would
like to think that you have the consolation of
knowing that your death will not be wasted.”
Kroll’s legs gave way and he crashed down
into his chair, his head and shoulders slump-
ing forward onto the table. The hole in the
back of his head was surprisingly small.

“We will have to put Levi in the refrigerat-

or until the time comes to use him,” Kurst
went on. “We do not want to give away the
time of his death. And whatever clue it is that
we place in his pocket, it will have to be
something very ingenious. We want to make
MI6 work. The more clever they think they

104/667

are, the more easily they will fall into our
trap.” He glanced again at Razim. “There is
something else?”

“Yes.” Like everyone else in the room,

Razim seemed completely uninterested in
the murder that he had just witnessed. It was
as if nothing had happened at all. “We can
manipulate MI6. And we can ensure that
Alex Rider is brought back into service. Once
he is in our hands, it will be a simple matter
to kill him, although”—he smiled to him-
self—“I hope you will allow me a little time
with him first. There is an experiment that I
would like to try.”

“Just be careful,” the Frenchman said.
“Of course. But there is something else

that we need and that I didn’t have time to
mention before our unfortunate interrup-
tion.” He glanced briefly at the dead man,
sprawled forward over the table. “Although I
have said that we cannot forge the evidence,
we nonetheless have to be careful. We live in

105/667
an age of disinformation. That is to say, there
isn’t a document or a report that anyone
trusts. People need to see things with their
own eyes. We are going to need to capture
Alex Rider on film. I want to be able to show
him live on TV before he is discovered, as it
were, dead on TV. I want the whole world to
be able to see him in action.”

“And how will you manage that?” Dr.

Three asked.

Razim took out a second cigarette. Nobody

was going to ask him to stop smoking. Not
now. “Actually, it will be very simple,” he
drawled. “But it will require the assistance of
someone very special . . . someone quite
unique. Fortunately, I was able to track this
person down and I have already been in
communication with him. He has every reas-
on to wish harm to Alex Rider. In fact, he
hates Rider more than any of us here.

“I have not yet been able to speak to him
about Horseman, but I can assure you that

106/667

he will be delighted to help us. Although get-
ting him to us is going to be expensive, I
have already put a team in place. It will be
money well spent.

“All being well, he should be with us at the
end of the week. And at that moment, Opera-
tion Horseman can begin.”

4

PRISONER 7

THE BOY WALKING ALONG the garden
path and up to the front door of the villa was
fifteen years old, with light brown hair that
swept down over his eye. He had a thin,
rather pale face, well-defined cheekbones,
and a slender neck. He was wearing jeans, a
black sports shirt, and sneakers. Overall, he
was slim, but he was also athletic and had
clearly spent time working out in the gym.
His arms and chest were almost too well de-
veloped for someone of his age. From the
way he moved, it seemed that he had all the
time in the world. He was listening to music
on an iPod, the white cable snaking down to
his back pocket.

108/667

It was a warm day with the sun beating
down on the well-kept lawn that stretched
out on either side of the path. There was a
vegetable patch with onions and carrots
already poking through and, curving behind
it, an old brick wall with pink climbing roses
and passionflowers. The villa itself was built
in the Spanish style with very pale yellow
weatherboarding and blue shutters. As he
approached the door, the boy unplugged his
earphones and heard birdsong, along with
the chug-chug-chug of an automatic sprink-
ler system. He stood still for a moment.
Close his eyes and he might be in some quiet
corner of England, perhaps a village in Dor-
set or Kent. But glancing past the garden, he
saw the razor-wire fence looming above him.
Two guards, both with automatic machine
guns, walked past. And once again he was re-
minded—as if he needed reminding—that he
was far from home, in one of the strangest
prisons in the world.

109/667

Certainly, it was a prison like no other. It
had no name. It was featured on no maps.
Very few people even knew it existed. The
staff who worked there—from the governor
to the guards to the cleaners and the
cook—had been told that if they ever
breathed a word about what they did, they
would end up in a cell themselves. The facil-
ity had been built at a cost of several million
dollars and cost millions more to run, and
yet—and this was the most remarkable thing
of all—it housed just seven prisoners, each
one in his own way so dangerous that there
was little chance they would ever be released.

This was the problem. There has been no
capital punishment in the United Kingdom
since 1963, so what was the government to
do with its worst enemies, the men and wo-
men who had sworn to bring about its de-
struction by any means? Of course, there
were high-security prisons such as Belmarsh
in the east of London or a psychiatric

110/667

hospital such as Broadmoor in
Berkshire—but even these weren’t con-
sidered secure enough for the handful of spe-
cial cases that had to be kept in almost total
isolation. These were people who couldn’t be
allowed to tell their stories. They couldn’t be
killed. So they had to be put somewhere
where they might be forgotten.

And so the compound had been construc-

ted. Not in Britain. That was felt to be too
close to home. Northern Ireland had been
considered. There were still prisons there
from the old days that could have been adap-
ted. But instead the overseas territory of
Gibraltar had finally been chosen, jutting out
of the southern end of Spain. There were
plenty of good reasons for this. First of all, it
was still British soil. Surrounded by sea on
three sides and with a well-patrolled border
on the fourth, it was virtually a prison in it-
self. It was very quiet. Apart from the Span-
ish occasionally demanding that the land be

111/667

given back, most people would have been
hard-pressed to point to it on a map. And
best of all, it was a base for both the British
Armed Forces and the Royal Navy. There
were already military buildings all over the
peninsula. Who would notice one more?

The prison was high up on the Rock and

overlooked the Bay of Gibraltar and the
Mediterranean—or would have if the walls,
six yards high and one yard thick, hadn’t got-
ten in the way. Electrified razor wire ran in-
side the walls so that even if a prisoner man-
aged to equip himself with a ladder, perhaps
constructed secretly in the prison workshop,
he wouldn’t be able to place it anywhere
close. The position of the fence had been
chosen with care. It couldn’t be seen from
outside and there were no watchtowers, no
armed guards on patrol. In other words,
nothing gave away the true nature of the
complex. Nobody lived nearby and passing
residents and tourists believed that it was a

112/667

naval communications center dealing with
satellite and Internet traffic.

Most of the security was invisible. There

were almost a hundred closed-circuit TV
cameras and hidden microphones so that
prisoners were observed and listened to from
the moment they woke up . . . and even while
they were asleep. Movement sensors and
thermal imaging cameras provided data
twenty-four hours a day so that the guards
could tell instantly where everyone was at
any time. The dozen cells (five unoccupied)
were built on solid rock so tunneling was out
of the question, but more sensor wires cris-
scrossed the floor underneath anyway. No
visitors were allowed. No letters were ever
sent or received. There was just one entrance
and exit: a holding area with an electronic
gate at each end. Any vehicle entering or
leaving the prison was required to drive onto
a reinforced glass plate so that it could be

113/667

examined and searched from all sides before
it was allowed to continue.

And yet, surprisingly, the prison was a

very comfortable place. It was as if the Brit-
ish government had wanted to convince the
inmates that it wasn’t completely inhumane.
The various buildings scattered inside the
walls were low-rise, made of wood and brick.
Apart from the bars on the windows in the
accommodation block, the complex slightly
resembled a vacation village, an impression
heightened by the flower beds, olive and
cypress trees, and the sprinkler system dot-
ted around the dusty, winding paths. The
warden’s villa was almost absurdly pretty.
He was a tough ex-army man, living there
with his Spanish wife. But his home could
have come out of Disneyland.

Each prisoner had his own cell with a bed,
a work area, a TV, and a separate shower and
toilet. There was a library, a well-equipped
gym, a wood and metal workshop, and a

114/667

dining room. The other buildings included
an administration and residential block for
the guards, a central control room, and a
punishment block. This was a narrow cor-
ridor with three rooms built underground.
The rooms were soundproofed with no win-
dows, but they had seldom been used. There
was no reason to cause any trouble. And as
escape was impossible, nobody had ever
tried.

Seven prisoners.
Two of them were terrorists, not the

people who had carried the bombs but the
ones who had decided where they should be
placed. They had been captured while plan-
ning a nuclear strike on London, and they
had been tried in secret and then brought to
Gibraltar. Nobody was ever to know how
nearly they had succeeded. Two of them
were secret agents, spies working for foreign
powers. They had managed to get deep in-
side the intelligence services before they

115/667

were unmasked, and again, in their case, it
was what they knew as much as what they
were that made them so dangerous. One
man—the oldest in the prison—claimed that
he had been a weapons inspector in Iraq and
was innocent of any crime. Nobody believed
him. The sixth man was a freelance assassin.
There were very few pages in his file. He had
never revealed his name, his nationality, his
age, or the number of people he had killed.

But it was the seventh prisoner, the

fifteen-year-old boy standing in front of the
governor’s villa, who was without doubt the
most remarkable. In fact, he was almost
unique; not born but created, given a face
that wasn’t his own, taught how to kill—and
quite, quite insane.

His name was Julius Grief and he had

been one of the sixteen clones created in a
South African laboratory by his natural fath-
er, Dr. Hugo Grief. A clone is an exact copy
of a human being, manufactured by taking a

116/667

single cell and cultivating it inside an egg.
Julius had not only never met his mother, he
didn’t really have one. Until he had been
born, cloning had been restricted to laborat-
ory animals. The most famous had been
Dolly the sheep. But using technology that he
had developed first at the University of Jo-
hannesburg and later as minister of science,
Grief had cloned the first human beings: six-
teen replicas of himself.

They had all grown up together in the

Point Blanc Academy, a castle high up in the
French Alps, near Grenoble. Dr. Grief had
been planning to take over the richest and
most powerful families on the planet by kid-
napping their teenaged sons and replacing
them with his own brood. One by one, the
boys had been given painful—and perman-
ent—plastic surgery, making them identical
to their targets. None of them had com-
plained. This was the purpose of their entire
life. This was what they had been created for.

117/667

They had never had proper identities of their
own. Even their names had been chosen de-
liberately. Each one of them had been named
after a great world leader. Julius’s name had
come from Julius Caesar, the Roman emper-
or. And there had been other boys named
Napoleon, Ghengis, Mao Tse, and even (the
sixteenth) Adolf.

As things had turned out, Julius had been

the last of the boys to be given a new iden-
tity. He was going to be Alex Friend, the son
of Sir David Friend, a man who had made a
fortune from supermarkets and art galleries.
He was going to live in a huge house in York-
shire, in the north of England. He would go
riding and shooting with aristocratic friends.
It was going to be amazing. And one day,
after he had murdered Sir David and his
family, it would all belong to him.

And so he had undergone the surgery. He
had begun to learn his new role—how to talk
like Alex Friend, how to walk like him, how

118/667

to be him. And then, at the last minute, he
had discovered the terrible truth. The boy he
was watching day and night, the one he was
modeling himself on, was not Alex Friend at
all. His real name was Alex Rider and he
was, incredibly, a spy working for British in-
telligence! Julius Grief had been given the
wrong face! The face of Alex Rider!

Worse was to follow. Alex had escaped

from Point Blanc, only to return at the head
of an armed force. The school had been des-
troyed. Dr. Grief had been killed. Julius had
managed to escape and had tracked Alex
down to his school in Chelsea, but somehow,
even though he’d had surprise on his side
and a loaded gun in his hand, Rider had
managed to get the better of him. Julius re-
membered the fight on the roof of the chem-
istry block. The fire. Plunging down into the
inferno. He could still feel the burns that
started at his neck and crisscrossed his body
all the way to his thighs. He’d spent two

119/667
months in the hospital and the pain would be
with him for the rest of his life. He was re-
minded of it every time he caught sight of his
reflection.

He still had Alex’s face.
It drove him mad. When he brushed his
teeth in the morning, there it would be, in
the mirror, smiling back at him. If he passed
a window at night, the ghost of his enemy
would glide by beside him. After a heavy
rainfall, Alex Rider would look up at him
from the puddles. There were times when he
wanted to tear his face off with his own nails
. . . In his early days at the prison he had
tried to do exactly that, leaving deep
scratches down his forehead and cheeks.
That was when they had decided he needed
psychiatric help. He was on his way to his
next appointment now.

Julius Grief reached out and rang the bell

at the side of the warden’s front door. He
was expected, of course, but it was against

120/667

regulations to go in without ringing. The bell
sounded both inside the building and in the
control room at the front gate. A TV camera
had already picked him out and one of the
guards was checking that he was meant to be
there. Yes. An eleven o’clock appointment.
He was exactly on time.

The front door opened and a short gray-

haired woman looked out. As always, she
was wearing dark colors with a white shirt
buttoned up to her neck and very little jew-
elry. She could have been the headmistress
of a primary school, perhaps in some remote
English village. She was in her mid-forties
with a pinched face and a slightly turned-up
nose. Her name was Rosemary Flint and she
was a child psychiatrist. She had been meet-
ing Julius twice a week for the past six
months, talking to him in the living room of
the warden’s house rather than in the library
or in his cell because she hoped the homey
atmosphere might help.

121/667

“Good morning, Julius,” she said. She had

one of those annoying voices that were al-
ways sweet and reasonable. Somehow you
knew that she would never lose her temper.
“Good morning, Dr. Flint,” Julius replied.
“How are you today?”
“I’m very well, thank you.”
“Come in.”
They had spoken almost exactly the same

words fifty times and Dr. Flint noted that not
once had the boy’s expression ever changed.
He was coldly polite. His eyes were empty.
She had never told Julius this, but part of her
job was to decide if there was any chance
that he could one day be released and re-
turned to society. After all, it wasn’t entirely
his fault that he was what he was. That was
how he had been made. Someone in British
intelligence hoped that he could be turned
around and that one day he might lead a nor-
mal life. But as far as Dr. Flint was con-
cerned, that day was still a very long way off.

122/667

She led him into the living room and ges-

tured toward a large, comfortable sofa
covered with a fabric showing a pattern of
flowers. There was no need for the gesture.
Julius sat in the same place every time. The
warden’s wife liked flowers. The room had
flowery wallpaper too, and there was a vase
of roses, cut from the garden, on a low, dark
wood table. The curtains were thick and kept
out much of the sunlight even when they
were open. An antique mirror had once hung
on one of the walls, but Julius had smashed
it in the middle of his third session. The
warden hadn’t been pleased, but Dr. Flint
had insisted that there be no punishment. In
her view, the boy wasn’t responsible for his
actions. She thought of him, at least in part,
as a victim. A painting—a view of Cadiz—now
hung in the mirror’s place.

“Would you like some orange juice, Juli-

us?” Dr. Flint asked.

123/667

“No, thank you,” Julius said. He never

drank or ate anything during these sessions.
Dr. Flint had tried cookies, chocolates, Coke,
and cream cakes—all without success. She
knew exactly what was going on in his mind.
To have taken anything would have been to
give her power over him. She might set the
rules, but he was playing his own game. One
day, she hoped, he might accept a Jaffa Cake.
Then, at last, she would know that the heal-
ing process had begun.

“So how has your week been?”
“I’ve had a very good week, thank you.”
“Are you reading anything from the prison

library?”

“I’ve just started War Horse.”
“That’s excellent, Julius. You should try to

read as much as you can.” She smiled.
“What’s it about?”

“It’s about some stupid horses that get

killed in the war.”

“Aren’t you enjoying it?”

124/667

“No. Not much.”
Dr. Flint sighed. The boy was lying. She

knew every book that he had borrowed and
every book that he had read. He was the only
teenager in the prison and there weren’t a
great many things he could do with his time.
He devoured books. But when he was with
her, he pretended otherwise.

“Have you thought more about what we

spoke about last time?” she asked.

“We discussed a lot of things, Dr. Flint.”
“We were talking about anger

management.”

“I’m not angry.”
“I think you are.”
Julius didn’t answer, but he could feel

something burning white-hot inside him. It
wasn’t anger. How could this stupid woman
describe it like that? It was like molten lava
flowing through his intestines. It was like
acid. He looked down deliberately, knowing
that he would be unable to keep the emotion

125/667

out of his eyes. Dr. Flint would see it and she
would write it down in that notebook of hers.
She wrote everything down as if she could
even begin to understand him. It was lucky
that she couldn’t see into his imagination.
Julius dreamed of killing Alex Rider. Slowly.
Painfully. He should have done it on the
school roof a year ago. He had come so close.
And he might yet get another chance. For a

brief second, Julius thought about the note
he had found the night before. It had been
waiting for him, hidden in his room . . . in-
credibly, impossibly. He had read it so many
times that he knew every word by heart—but
he quickly forced it out of his mind. The wo-
man was still examining him. He didn’t dare
give anything away.

“I thought we might try some word associ-

ation today,” Dr. Flint said.

“Whatever you say, Dr. Flint.” It was her

favorite game. She said one word. He had to
say another, instantly, without any thought.

126/667

It was supposed to demonstrate what was
going on in his mind.

“Right.” She looked around her. “I’m going

to start with something very ordinary. You
know what to do.”

There was a pause. Then she began.
“Dog.”
“Bone.”
“Kitchen.”
“Knife.”
“Handle.”
“Blade.”
“Grass.”
“Dead body.”
Dr. Flint stopped. “I don’t understand the

association,” she said. “When you said
‘blade,’ I said ‘grass’ because I was thinking
of a blade of grass.”

“And when you said ‘grass,’ I thought of

burying someone underneath it.”

“Who do you want to bury, Julius?”

127/667

Julius didn’t answer. They both knew

whom he had in mind.

“Let’s try again,” Dr. Flint said. For the

first time in her career, she was beginning to
wonder if there was any point in this. She
had been working with this child for months
and she had made no progress at all. She
touched her lip. “Mouth.”

“Throat.”
“Drink.”
“Poison.”
“Bottle.”
“Message.”
“Letter.”
“Bed.”
She stopped a second time. “That was a

little better,” she said. “You were thinking of
a message in a bottle, I suppose. But why did
you say ‘bed’?”

Julius was cursing himself. He couldn’t get
the message out of his head. He had found it
under his pillow when he went to bed.

128/667

Someone must have placed it there during
the day. And now he had almost let it slip out
of his mouth, throwing out words without
thinking.

“Actually, I’ve got a slight headache. Do

you mind if we don’t play this anymore?” he
asked.

“Of course, Julius. Do you want to have a

rest?”

“No, Dr. Flint.” Only a few minutes of the

session had passed. They still had a whole
hour together. Julius wondered if he would
be able to get through it without screaming
at her or even trying to break her neck. He
had thrown himself at her once, early on in
his therapy, and after he’d been dragged off,
they’d put him in the punishment block for a
week. That couldn’t happen now. The mes-
sage. The secret friends. They wouldn’t keep
him waiting long. He just had to hold
everything together until the right time.

129/667

“All right. Why don’t we draw some pic-

tures together? I’d like you to draw some
imaginary place, and then you can take me
through it and tell me what you can see.”
Julius had an imaginary place. It was a
forest with Alex Rider hanging from every
tree. A whole world of Alex Riders, each one
of them suffering in a different way.

“Can I draw an amusement park?” he

asked.

“Of course, Julius.”
Even as he picked up the child’s crayon

that had been supplied for him, he thought
about the moment he had lifted the pillow
and seen the single folded sheet of paper be-
neath. He had known at once that it was
something special. Nobody ever came into
his room when he wasn’t there. The other
prisoners weren’t allowed. The guards and
the cleaners made a point of asking his
permission.

He had unfolded it and read:

130/667

WE ARE YOUR FRIENDS. WE ARE
PREPARING TO HELP YOU ESCAPE
FROM THIS PLACE. GO TO THE
LIBRARY TOMORROW AT TWELVE
O’CLOCK AND YOU WILL FIND
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS.

The words had been neatly typed. Instead
of a signature there was a little emblem prin-
ted in silver at the bottom of the page.

A scorpion.
Julius had read the note a dozen times,

then crumpled it into a ball and swallowed it
with a cup of water he had drawn from the
tap. After that he had gone to bed—but he
hadn’t slept.

WE ARE YOUR FRIENDS.
Who? He had no friends. Could it be some

of his brothers? Julius had never found out
what had happened to them after the Point
Blanc Academy had been shut down but had
assumed that they were, like him, prisoners.
Perhaps he had been contacted by people

131/667

who had known his father. They might be
from the old South Africa . . .

TOMORROW AT TWELVE O’CLOCK . . .
Tomorrow was now today. It was already

ten past eleven. Just fifty minutes to go. Juli-
us Grief forced the image of Alex Rider (with
a kitchen knife in his chest, his bones ex-
posed, lying in the grass, under the grass)
out of his mind and began to draw a merry-
go-round. Dr. Flint watched him and of
course she didn’t know. Nobody knew.

This was the day he was going to escape.

5

OVER THE EDGE

THE LIBRARY WAS THE MOST modern
building in the prison, and although it was
unusually small and compact, it could have
been lifted out of almost any provincial town
in England. It was low-rise with red bricks
and sliding glass doors and contained about
three hundred books—half in English, half in
Spanish—for the guards and their families
used it too. There was a desk where books
had to be signed in and out, a newspaper and
magazine section (although all the publica-
tions were carefully censored), then the
books themselves, divided into the usual
classifications. The crime and horror sec-
tions were the most popular with the

133/667

prisoners. New books appeared occasionally,
mainly sent in by charities. When Julius
Grief had arrived, the warden had personally
set up a children’s section, purchasing the
first books—a complete collection of Roald
Dahl—with his own money.

Julius Grief walked over as soon as his ses-

sion with Dr. Flint was over, crossing the
open space where some of the other prison-
ers were enjoying the sun, sitting on rickety
chairs between the trees. The two terrorists
were playing Scrabble. As Julius walked past,
one of them noticed him and nodded vaguely
in his direction. He had just made the word
JIHAD with the J on a triple letter, scoring
thirty-three points. The assassin was nearby,
reading a celebrity magazine, circling some
of the heads with a black felt-tip pen. The
other prisoners didn’t really like having a
teenager among them. It offended their
sense of dignity.

134/667

Julius had to force himself not to hurry.

He knew that his every movement was being
watched and that any strange behavior, any
indication that he was planning something
would be reported immediately. He actually
hesitated before he went into the library, as if
he wasn’t sure whether he needed a book or
not. Then he made up his mind and passed
through the glass doors.

“Buenos días, Julius.” The librarian was a
Spaniard who also worked in the prison ac-
counts office. His name was Carlos and he
was plump and good-natured, dressed in the
same uniform as the guards, an olive green
shirt and dark trousers. “You are coming to
the talk tonight?”

“I’m looking forward to it,” Julius said.
There were occasional talks in the library,
given by the prisoners or by the guards. Two
weeks ago, one of the secret agents had given
an hour’s lecture on the Cold War. Tonight,

the chef was demonstrating his mother’s re-
cipe for paella.

“What brings you here today?” Carlos

135/667

asked.

“I’ve come to borrow a book.”
Carlos glanced at his computer screen.
“But you already have three books in your
cell.”

“I know. But I’ve finished two of them.

And I’m not enjoying the third . . .”

Julius walked toward the bookshelves,
feeling the librarian’s eyes boring into his
back. What exactly was he looking for? The
note had told him to come here . . . he would
find further instructions. But apart from Car-
los, there was no one else in the building.
Would there be a second letter hidden some-
where here—and if so, how was he meant to
find it? He decided to head for the children’s
section. After all, that was where “they”
would have expected him to go.

136/667

He stopped in front of the shelves. The
Dahl collection stretched from one side to
the other. Julius had never read any of it, al-
though he had once come upon one of the
terrorists with The Fantastic Mr. Fox. As far
as he could see, nothing had changed since
his last visit. He could even make out the
gaps where he had pulled out his own choice
of books.

And then he saw it. One new book, lying

flat on its side. A fat, dusty-looking hardback
called Wildlife in Gibraltar: Volume
2—Birds and Insects. It shouldn’t have been
here. It should have been on the other side of
the room, in Natural History. But that wasn’t
what had caught his eye. It was the cover.
There was a picture of an insect that seemed
to be gazing at him with its tiny eyes. It
couldn’t just be a coincidence.

It was a scorpion—the same creature that

had appeared on his note.

137/667

He glanced around. Carlos was sitting,

tapping at his keyboard. The librarian
seemed to have forgotten him. But there
were still cameras mounted in all four
corners of the room. They would be watching
him from the control room beside the gate.
Julius put on a performance for their benefit.
He took out one book, then another—as if
considering which one to read—then finally
lifted the wildlife volume and carried it over
to a table.

He had chosen the position carefully. The

table was right next to a shelf, which
screened it from the cameras. Carlos could
still see him. But he was fairly certain that
the book was out of sight. Very carefully, he
opened it. And gasped. How could this have
happened? Nobody knew about the prison.
Nobody could possibly infiltrate it. And yet
there it was in front of him. The pages of the
book had been cut out to provide a hiding
place for a gun, a Mauser C96 automatic

138/667

pistol with the barrel shortened to allow it to
fit. Julius ran a finger over the cold metal.
He had been taught to shoot when he was six
years old and had killed for the first time
when he was nine. But it had been a long
time since he had held a gun in his own
hands, and he had thought he would never
have one again. For just one moment he felt
an urge to pick it up, to turn around and
shoot Carlos in the head. But that was crazy.
He had to be careful, do this one step at a
time.

There was a second note folded into the

book. It was much longer and more detailed
than the message he had received the night
before. Julius read it very carefully. Whoever
was helping him, these were serious people.
He knew he couldn’t make a mistake. Fin-
ally, when he was ready, he closed the book
and got up. It was half past twelve, exactly
the right time. He knew what he had to do.

139/667

The subject has made no progress at all
since his arrival in Gibraltar. It is clear
that Julius Grief has a pathological
hatred for Alex Rider that is deep-
rooted and permanent. And yet, at the
same time, surgery has made him
identical to the object of his hate. It
must surely follow that subconsciously,
some of that hatred must be directed
against himself. In my view, there is a
very real danger that this psychological
turmoil could drive Grief over the edge
and that he could plunge into depres-
sion, suicide, or total nervous break-
down. Indeed, it is surprising that it
hasn’t happened yet.

Dr. Flint looked at what she had just writ-
ten and felt a deep sense of gloom. She had
been working with damaged children for her
entire professional life, but she had never
met anyone like Julius Grief. On the one
hand, she wanted to feel sorry for him. He

140/667

wasn’t responsible for what he had become.
He had been manipulated from the moment
he was born—in fact, even his birth had been
manipulated. He was a freak, created for one
purpose only: to help his father take over the
world. She had read the file on Hugo Grief
and it had made her shudder. All sixteen
boys had been drip-fed a diet of hatred and
insanity, and all of them (apart from two
who had died) had ended up in institutions
like this, locked up for the rest of their lives.
It wasn’t their fault.

And yet no matter how hard she tried, she

couldn’t avoid the fact that she had a deep
dislike for Julius. She knew it was unprofes-
sional, but at the same time it was almost in-
stinctive. He was a horrible person. And she
wasn’t fooled by him either. Although he
went along with her methods—the discus-
sions, the word association, the different
psychological tests—she knew he was toying
with her. And he was keeping something

141/667

back. Even this morning she had been aware
of it. He had tried to hide what he was think-
ing in his expressionless face and his flat,
formal answers. But there had been mo-
ments when she sensed it, flickering in the
corner of her eye like a moth in candlelight.
There was something he wasn’t telling her.
She wondered if she should mention it to the
warden but decided against it. She was the
boy’s therapist. She had to respect his con-
fidentiality. She went back to her notes.

I recommend that Julius be put back on
medication with immediate effect. Al-
though I do not like drugging young
people, I feel that in his case—

The doorbell rang. That was surprising.

The warden never came back before two
o’clock, and his wife was out for lunch. Dr.
Flint went over to the small television screen
in the hallway and saw a black-and-white
image of Julius standing outside, holding a

142/667

bunch of flowers that he must have picked
himself in the prison garden. She was temp-
ted not to open the door. He shouldn’t be
here. It was against regulations. She re-
membered how he had tried to attack her in
one of her first sessions with him. And then
there had been the time when he had gone
berserk and smashed the mirror. She should
tell him to go away.

But then she reconsidered. All that had
been a long time ago, and maybe he really
was trying to make amends for his behavior
that morning. Maybe he had come to tell her
what was on his mind. The flowers were a
sweet touch. And anyway, there were dozens
of cameras that would be trained on him
even now. There was no danger. She opened
the door.

“What is it, Julius?” she asked.
“It’s a bit difficult to explain, Dr. Flint.”
“Do you want to come back inside?”

143/667

“No. As a matter of fact, I’d like you to

come with me.”

“Where do you want to go?”
“We’re leaving here—together.”
He dropped the flowers and there it was,
in his hand, pointing at her. Dr. Flint stared
in shock. Julius Grief was holding a gun, his
finger curled around the trigger, a glazed
look in his eyes. It was like something out of
a nightmare. First, it made no sense at all.
How could he possibly have gotten a gun?
And yet at the same time there was
something horribly inevitable about it. Julius
was managing to contain his excitement. He
was in total control. Dr. Flint knew that if
she didn’t do exactly what he said, he would
shoot her without a second thought.

He stepped forward and suddenly the gun

was at her throat and his face was close to
hers and she could feel the madness as if she
had been slapped with it. He was as tall as
her and a great deal stronger. He was armed.

144/667

For the first time since she had known him,
his face had cracked into something resem-
bling a smile. Suddenly he was no longer fif-
teen and the good looks that the plastic sur-
geon had given him were twisted out of
shape. He could have been fifteen or he
could have been fifty. Evil has no age. Dr.
Flint was terrified. Had she really spent the
last six months, twice a week, on her own
with this monster?

“I’m going to walk out of here,” Julius said,

and his voice was soft even if it was on the
edge of hysteria. “Walk, walk, walk, walk.
And you’re going to help me.”

“They’ll never let you through the gate.”
Julius pressed the gun into the side of her
neck, the sawed-off muzzle pointing upward.
“Then they’ll be scraping your brains off the
fence,” he told her. “Shall we go, Dr. Flint? I
think we should.”

They walked together like two lovers per-

forming some strange sort of dance. Dr. Flint

145/667

was looking straight ahead, her head tilted,
her eyes still staring. Julius was enjoying
himself. The feel of the gun in his hand was
giving him strength. He loved the way the
hard steel pressed into the woman’s flesh.
For months he had endured her stupid ques-
tions, her endless games. Now, at last, he
was the one in command.

Despite all the cameras, Julius Grief and
Dr. Flint had almost reached the first gate,
the entrance to the holding area, before any-
one realized that something was wrong. Per-
haps they thought it was some sort of exer-
cise, part of the therapy, but then at last
someone saw the gun and realized what was
actually going on. At once, long-rehearsed
emergency procedures sprang into life. A
dozen sirens went off, their combined sound
echoing all over the peninsula. Guards burst
out of doorways, their weapons ready. The
other prisoners were rushed, at gunpoint,
back into their cells. An automated phone

146/667

message had been sent instantly to the
Devil’s Tower Camp, home of the Royal
Gibraltar Regiment close to the airport, call-
ing for immediate backup, and before Julius
had even had a chance to make his demands,
half a dozen Land Rovers were speeding out
of the garrison and beginning the long climb
uphill.

For a moment, everything froze. It was as
if the entire compound had become a photo-
graph of itself. Julius Grief was still holding
on to Dr. Flint, one hand on her shoulder,
the other—with the gun—pressing against
her neck. He was surrounded by rifles and
automatic machine guns. They were aiming
at him from every direction. The sun was
beating down, glinting off the razor-wire
fence. Somewhere outside the prison, there
was a brief chatter of laughter as one of the
island’s famous apes swung itself off the
branch of a tree and disappeared into the
undergrowth.

147/667

Then the warden appeared. He was a
short, muscular man with silver hair cut
short, dressed in army fatigues. He had been
in the control room when the alarm was
sounded. He stopped in the holding area on
the other side of the gate.

“Grief!” he barked. He had been in the

Royal Navy for twenty years. He had the sort
of voice that was used to being obeyed.
“What do you think you’re doing?”

“Open the gate or I’ll put a bullet in her.”

Julius was loving this. He could feel the
world spinning around him. “I’ll kill her. I
promise.”

“Where did you get the gun?”
A stupid question. Julius wasn’t going to

answer it. “Five seconds,” he called out.

“You’re not going anywhere.”
“Four . . .”
The warden had to make a decision. He

had no doubt at all that Grief would use the
gun. He could see that Rosemary Flint was

148/667

terrified. The guards were waiting for his
command, but he couldn’t let them fire, not
unless they wanted to kill the woman too.
How could the boy have possibly gotten hold
of the weapon? Was it even a real one? He
couldn’t take the risk of finding out. Dr. Flint
was a civilian. Her safety came first.

“Three seconds, warden.”
Right now, the boy had the upper hand.
But that would change on the other side of
the prison gates. Backup would already be on
its way and Julius Grief hadn’t actually
worked it out properly. He had nowhere to
go. He was high above the main city and har-
bor with narrow lanes and hairpin bends all
the way down. He wouldn’t be able to keep
Flint close to him all the time, and even if he
made it to the bottom, there was no way he
could leave the peninsula. Nobody was going
to let him get on a plane or a ship. The Span-
ish border authorities would already have
been alerted. Everything was on the warden’s

149/667

side. Once Grief was out, it would be easy to
pick him off.

“Open the gate!” Julius shouted. His face

was deathly pale. His arm and the hand with
the gun were rigid. Even if someone did
shoot him, he would still manage to kill Dr.
Flint before he died.

“Do what he says!” the warden called out.
For another second nothing happened, as
if the guards couldn’t believe what they had
just heard. Then there was a click and the
heavy gate began to roll aside. Julius
grabbed hold of Dr. Flint’s collar and began
to drag her forward, the two of them moving
side by side. The guns followed them into the
holding area.

The inner gate slid shut and they were
trapped inside a pen with fences on three
sides of them, the control room on the
fourth. The warden had retreated, as if trying
to get as far away from them as possible. A
young guard stared at them from behind a

150/667

plate glass window. Nothing like this had
ever happened at the prison before.

“Julius,” Dr. Flint rasped. It was hard for
her to talk with the gun pressed against her
throat. “Don’t do this. It’s not going to work.”
“I would very much enjoy pulling this trig-
ger,” Julius replied. “In fact, I’d love it. So if I
were you, I’d shut up, Dr. Flint. Don’t give
me the excuse.”

The second gate opened, and for the first
time in twelve long months, Julius was able
to see the little olive groves, the scattered
boulders, and the wild grass on the other
side of the walls. In the distance he glimpsed
the Mediterranean, a twisting ribbon of blue.

“Off we go!”
He forced Dr. Flint forward. This was the
critical moment. He knew that as soon as he
had left the prison, he would have to get rid
of her. She would only slow him down. But
that would be when he was most exposed.
The guards wouldn’t hesitate to shoot. Julius

151/667

was putting all his trust in the people who
had sent him his instructions—and he still
had no idea who they were. If they had
tricked him, if they had failed to deliver, he
would be killed. But in a way he didn’t care.
Better this one minute of freedom than a life
behind bars.

The two of them had passed through the
outer gate and now the prison was behind
them. Julius Grief had been brought here in
a blacked-out van, so he had never seen the
view. A narrow track ran downhill past some
small concrete buildings like pillboxes from
the last war. The ground was dusty and
covered in pine needles. He could smell pine
and eucalyptus in the air. There was nobody
in sight, but the letter in the book had
warned him that he would have only five
minutes before the Royal Gibraltar Regiment
Land Rovers reached him. He had to move
fast.

152/667

He swung his hand, cracking the Mauser

across Dr. Flint’s head. The woman cried out
and fell to her knees, blood pouring down
the side of her face. Julius twisted around
and fired three shots at the prison gates, the
bullets ricocheting off the brickwork. He
hadn’t hurt anyone, but it would give them
something to think about. Certainly nobody
would choose to come running out in the
next few seconds, and he needed all the time
he could get.

He began to run down the hill. He had

kept himself fit while he was in prison, not
because he had anywhere to go but because
that was how he had been brought up. His
father, Hugo Grief, had insisted on six hours
of exercise a day, starting with a two-mile
run through the snow. They had learned
martial arts. They knew how to kill.

And he had taught them how to drive.
The car was waiting exactly where the let-
ter had said it would be, parked just off the

153/667

lane behind a cluster of the date palm trees
that were dotted all over Gibraltar. It was a
small SUV, a Suzuki Jimny, cheap and box-
like and covered in dust. One fender was
crumpled. The driver’s mirror was cracked.
To look at, it could have been abandoned,
but the door was unlocked and the keys were
in the ignition. Julius scrambled inside. At
the same time, he heard a car rush past on
the lane, heading downhill from the prison.
Fortunately, the driver hadn’t seen him.
Somebody shouted. The guards were spread-
ing out on foot as well. It wouldn’t take them
long to find him. He slammed the door and
turned the key.

The 1.3 cylinder engine rattled noisily to

life. The guards wouldn’t expect him to have
a car, but they must have heard the sound
and would know—if they hadn’t already
guessed—that every aspect of this escape had
been planned, with help from outside. Julius
jammed the gear into reverse, then shot out

154/667

onto the lane, the wheels spinning and send-
ing out clouds of dust. The Suzuki was
cramped and handled badly. It would
struggle to get around the curves. Still, it was
better than walking.

A shot rang out, slamming into the body-

work just above the rear tire. One of the
guards had seen him. Julius shoved the gear-
shift into first and accelerated. The Suzuki
leapt forward even as the guard fired again,
his second shot splintering the branch of a
nearby tree. Julius was hunched over the
wheel. There was another guard on the lane
ahead of him. How had he gotten there so
fast? As he brought his gun around, Julius
floored the accelerator pedal. For a brief
second the guard filled the front window.
Then the car hit him and there was a sicken-
ing thud as he was thrown into the air, the
gun spinning out of his hands.

Julius was ten yards down the road before

the man hit the ground. There were two

155/667

prison jeeps behind him. He could see them
in his rearview mirror. They were faster than
the Jimny, getting closer by the second. If he
hadn’t been driving downhill, they would
already have caught him. Just ahead, the
lane curved steeply to the right. He spun the
wheel and suddenly he was on the very edge
of the hillside with a sheer drop of a hundred
yards. He saw the huge rocks and the sea far
below. At the same time, he felt the tires slip-
ping off the track, grit and loose pebbles
spraying out. He fought with the steering
wheel, forcing the Suzuki back under his
control. By the time he had rounded the
corner, he had put some distance between
himself and the pursuing vehicles—but he
had almost killed himself too.

The next corner was easier. It bent to the
left so that this time the car was hugging the
cliff face, away from the sea. Even so, Julius
miscalculated and there was an explosion of
glass and plastic as one of the mirrors

156/667

disintegrated against a rocky outcrop. The
jeeps were catching up again too, and look-
ing ahead, he could see the fleet of Land
Rovers belonging to the Royal Gibraltar Re-
giment climbing toward him.

There was no way down. There was no way

back. The next hairpin bend and a sheer
drop to certain death were straight ahead.
Julius wrenched the wheel to the right.

The driver of the nearest jeep saw the Suzuki
leave the road, weaving across a patch of
scrubland toward a dilapidated barn. The
boy was out of control. He tried to steer the
car back onto the track but instead smashed
straight into the barn door, disappearing in a
blast of shattering wood. For the next few
seconds, the car was out of sight, inside the
barn, but then it reappeared, breaking
through the other side, the hood crumpled,
the front window now a spider’s web of
cracks. Julius Grief could only be glimpsed,
staring out with a rictus smile, his light

157/667

brown hair sweeping down over his eyes, his
hands glued to the steering wheel.

There was nowhere to go. The cars from
the barracks had almost arrived and were
taking up positions lower down the hill,
blocking the way. With the rocks on one side
and the drop on the other, there was no way
to get past.

Julius didn’t even try. Perhaps he couldn’t
see. Perhaps he had been concussed when he
hit the barn door. He didn’t even attempt to
steer the car, tearing dead straight across the
scrubland, rejoining the track, then continu-
ing over it. As the horrified prison drivers
skidded to a halt, the Suzuki reached the oth-
er side of the track, smashed through a
barbed-wire fence, and launched itself into
the void. Briefly it hung in the air. Then it
plunged down, following the sheer edge of
the Rock in a long, terrible descent toward
the sea. About halfway down it hit a boulder.
There was a single explosion as it burst into

158/667

flames, somersaulted, then continued on its
way. It was upside down when it hit the wa-
ter. For a moment it rested there, the flames
licking upward as if trying to set the sea
alight. Then it sank. A few pieces of broken
metal rolled down the hillside. Apart from
that, there was nothing left.

The nearest Land Rover came to a halt and

the driver got out. Gradually, more guards
appeared, hurrying across the grass to peer
over the edge, beside the broken fence.
Below them and to one side, the city of
Gibraltar lay spread out, the high-rises facing
the sea. The Mediterranean itself was a bril-
liant blue, the sun throwing a million shim-
mering reflections across the surface.
“Did you see that?” someone asked.
“Poor bastard!”
“You think he did it on purpose? He didn’t

even try to get back on the road.”

“He could still be alive.”

159/667

“Forget it. Nobody could have survived

that. He’ll have drowned . . . if he didn’t burn
to death first.”

“Poor sod. And he was only fifteen.”
There would have to be an inquiry, of
course. The most critical question would
be—how had the gun been smuggled into the
prison? One of the guards must have been
bribed . . . but which one? And which organ-
ization had been behind the attempted es-
cape? How had they even known about the
existence of the prison in the first place? An
ambulance was already on its way to take Dr.
Flint to St. Bernard’s Hospital in the middle
of Gibraltar city. As the last person to see
Julius Grief alive, she might be able to fill in
a few details. The warden would have to fly
to London, to report at the highest level.
There would be severe reprimands all
around and an inevitable tightening of
security.

160/667

There were now six prisoners instead of
seven. Julius Grief was dead and although
frogmen would be sent to the seabed, there
was very little chance that much or any of his
remains would be discovered in the wreckage
of the car. Well, he wouldn’t be missed. He
was only a kid, but he was a mad kid. None
of the other prisoners had liked him. Perhaps
it was better this way.

And nobody knew the truth.

The trick had been played inside the old
barn, during the few seconds when Julius
Grief had been out of sight. As he had been
instructed, he had driven into the building,
smashing through a door that had been spe-
cially weakened for just this purpose. A
whole team of Scorpia agents—six of
them—had been waiting for him inside the
barn, and as he skidded to a halt, a second,
identical Suzuki Jimny had burst out the
other side. But this one had no driver. It was

161/667

radio controlled with a dummy Julius
strapped to the wheel, almost invisible be-
hind all the cracks. It didn’t have to travel
very far. In fact, it had been a simple task to
guide it across the open patch of land,
through the fence, and over the edge.

And while the guards were watching the

fall and the explosion, the Scorpia team had
got to work. The original Suzuki had been
hastily covered with a tarpaulin and then
with straw. Julius had been led to a pit con-
structed in the floor with a trapdoor sliding
across. There was enough room for him and
all the agents to bundle in together, and
within seconds they had all disappeared. If
anyone from the prison had thought to look
inside the barn after the crash, they would
have found it to be quite empty and aban-
doned with a few bits of old machinery, a
haystack, and some moldy bags of animal
feed.

162/667

But nobody did. Everything had happened
exactly as Scorpia had intended. As far as the
world was concerned, Julius Grief was dead.
And nobody was watching that night as a
fishing boat with a single smiling passenger
slipped out of Gibraltar harbor beneath a full
moon and a starry sky and began its journey
south.

6

SECRETS AND LIES

THE REPORT WAS MARKED TOP SECRET
with the two words stamped on the cover in
red ink, but in fact there was no need for
them. Only three copies had been printed,
one for Alan Blunt, the head of MI6 Special
Operations, one for his deputy, Mrs. Jones,
and one for the chief science officer, and
since almost everything they did was secret
in one way or another anyway, they hardly
needed to be told. Sometimes Blunt
wondered how many tens of thousands of
documents had passed across the polished
surface of his desk, here on the sixteenth
floor of the building that called itself the
Royal and General Bank on Liverpool Street

164/667

in London. Each one of them had told its
own dirty little story. Some of them had led
nowhere, while others had demanded instant
action. An operation might be set up on the
other side of the world, an agent sent out to
run it. How many people had died on the
turn of a page?

But there wouldn’t be many more files

coming his way. Alan Blunt sat back in his
chair and looked around him, his mind still
sifting through the details of what he had
just read. He had occupied this office for sev-
enteen years and could have described it
with his eyes closed—right down to the last
paper clip. It was simply furnished with an
antique desk and a scattering of chairs on a
neutral carpet, two paintings on the
walls—landscapes that were barely worth ex-
amining—and a shelf full of reference books
that had never been opened. Rooms tell a lot
about the people who occupy them. Blunt

165/667
had made sure that this room said nothing at
all.

And soon he would be leaving it. The new
prime minister had decided that it was time
to make changes, and the entire department
was being reorganized. Blunt still didn’t
know who would be taking his place, but he
rather suspected it might be Mrs. Jones. She
hadn’t said anything to him, of course, nor
would he have expected her to. He very
much hoped that she would be promoted.
She had been recruited straight from Cam-
bridge University, bringing with her a first-
class degree in political science. There had
been tragedies in her life—the loss of her
husband and two sons—but she had risen
above them. She had a brilliant mind. Blunt
wondered if the prime minister would be
smart enough to recognize her talents. He
had thought of sending a memo to 10 Down-
ing Street but had decided against it. They
could make the decision for themselves.

166/667

What did the future hold for him? Blunt

was fifty-eight years old, not quite retirement
age. He would certainly be given a knight-
hood in the New Year’s Honors, his name ap-
pearing between celebrities and civil ser-
vants. “For services to government and in-
land security.” It would be something nice
and bland like that. He might be offered the
directorship of a bank, a real one this time.
He had once considered writing a book, but
there was no real point. He had signed the
Official Secrets Act, and if you took the
secrets out of his life, there would be nothing
left.

Briefly, he found himself examining the

empty chairs opposite him. Blunt was not an
emotional man, but he couldn’t stop himself
from remembering some of the men and wo-
men who had sat there. He had given them
their orders and they had gone, often not to
return. Danvers, Wilson, Rigby, Mortimer,
and Singh . . . who had done so well in

167/667

Afghanistan until his cover had been blown.
And John Rider. Blunt would never have
dreamed of saying so, but he had always had
a special regard for the agent who had finally
been assassinated on the orders of Scorpia
just as he was leaving for the south of France
with his young wife. John Rider had been a
much more effective agent than his younger
brother, Ian.

And then, of course, there was Alex Rider,
who had in many ways surpassed them both.
Blunt half smiled to himself. He had known
from the very start that there was something
special about the fourteen-year-old, and he
had refused to listen to the voices that had
insisted it was mad to bring a schoolboy into
the world of espionage. Alex had been the
perfect weapon because he was so unexpec-
ted, and he had done something that very
few other agents had achieved. He had been
sent out on eight missions and he had
survived.

168/667

In a way, though, Alex had been the cause
of Blunt’s undoing. When the prime minister
had found out that MI6 was using not just a
teenager but one who was under sixteen, he
had hit the roof. It was against every rule in
the book. The public would have been horri-
fied if the facts had ever leaked out, and of
course the prime minister would have shared
some of the blame even though it had noth-
ing to do with him. Blunt had no doubt that
Alex was the reason he had been asked to
step down. He had also been told in no un-
certain terms that Alex was not to be sent out
again, or to be replaced. So that was that. In
a way, Blunt was glad. He had seen enough
body bags. It would have been difficult to
look at one that was half sized.

The file . . .
Very unusually, Blunt had let his mind
wander. He forced himself to focus once
again. Forty-eight hours ago, a body had
been found floating in the River Thames, just

169/667

to the east of Southwark Bridge. The body
was that of a middle-aged man wearing a suit
and tie, and he had been shot in the back of
the neck. Identification had not been difficult
because the man had only one eye and had
once served in the Israeli army, which still
held his medical records. His name was Levi
Kroll and he was known to be an active
member, indeed one of the founding part-
ners, of Scorpia. As soon as that connection
had been made, the red lights had begun to
flash and the file had been passed here, to
Special Operations.

It seemed almost incredible that such a

senior member of Scorpia would have been
murdered and, even more so, that his body
would have been allowed to be found. It
raised all sorts of questions. What was Kroll
doing in London to begin with? Was it in
some way connected to the appearance of
Zeljan Kurst, just a few months before, and
the violence at the British Museum? There

170/667

were no records of Kroll having entered the
country, although that was hardly surprising,
as he would have had at least a dozen differ-
ent identities, each one with its own pass-
port. Who had killed him? According to the
reports, he had taken a .300 Winchester
Short Magnum bullet in the back of the neck,
possibly fired by a Belgian FN Special Police
Rifle from a distance of around seventy
yards. Could a rival organization have de-
clared war on Scorpia? Blunt considered the
possibility. There was no doubt that
Scorpia’s reputation had declined in the past
twelve months. Another group could well
have decided to steal its territory.

There were several clues mentioned in the

report. Blunt had underlined them in red
ink, putting a star beside them in the margin.
To begin with, the MI6 investigators had
suggested that Kroll might have been in
Egypt. The shirt that he had been wearing
when he died had been purchased at a shop

171/667

in the Arkadia Mall, overlooking the Nile. It
was made by Dalydress, an expensive Egyp-
tian manufacturer, and it was part of their
new spring collection, so it must have been
bought recently. Of course, the shirt could
have been a present, but they had trawled
through hundreds of hours of closed-circuit
television footage from all four of London’s
airports, concentrating on flights that had
come in from Egypt, and finally the work had
paid off. A man with a beard and an eye
patch had indeed come off a British Mid-
lands flight from Cairo the day before Kroll
had been washed up.

He had been carrying two items that gave
the MI6 men plenty to play with. The first of
these was a crocodile-skin wallet in his inner
pocket, purchased from Cartier in Paris and
fairly new. It contained several credit cards
in the name of Goodman, which must have
been the identity he had chosen for this visit
to England. The cards had been checked for

172/667

their credit history. Only one purchase had
been made. “Goodman” had bought three
magazines and a newspaper at Heathrow
Airport. The newspaper was the Times Edu-
cational Supplement—normally read by
teachers and academics. Blunt had drawn a
line beside this and added a question mark.
The wallet also contained a magnetic key

card such as might be used in any hotel in
the world, but it was unmarked and, Blunt
knew, very hard to trace. Kroll had been car-
rying $350 in different currencies: English
pounds, American dollars, and Egyptian
pounds, another connection with Cairo. Fin-
ally, the wallet held the stub of a ticket to the
Milan opera house dated from one month
ago, a receipt for dinner at Harry’s Bar in
Venice, and a photograph of a ten-year-old
boy with his arm around a Rottweiler dog.
His son? It wasn’t even known if Kroll was
married.

173/667

But of even greater interest was the Apple

iPhone that had been found in the same
pocket as the wallet. Of course, the water had
almost completely destroyed it, but even so,
the MI6 technicians had managed to retrieve
a few tiny scraps of information from its
memory. These had been printed on a separ-
ate sheet for Blunt and he laid it out in front
of him.

. . . progress . . . the vicar
Shafik (43) . . . payment
31st May—4th Ju
. . . target . . .

Blunt examined the words, searching for
any possible associations. Assuming this re-
ferred to a Scorpia operation, Kroll would
have been unusually careless to enter any-
thing into his mobile phone. But then of
course he wouldn’t have known he was about
to die. The dates, three weeks from now,
rang a faint bell—although were they

174/667

referring to June or July? Shafik was an Ar-
abic name; 43 might be his age. Was he the
target mentioned in the last line? Or could he
be an assassin? That would certainly explain
the need for payment. And what of the vicar?
The word sat at the top of the page, under-
lined. That would suggest some sort of oper-
ation involving religion, but frankly, church
was the last place you would expect to find
anyone from Scorpia.

It was a puzzle, but Blunt didn’t need to

waste any more mental energy trying to de-
cipher it. Half a dozen different departments
within Special Operations would have been
working on the note from the moment it had
been found, and he had called a meeting for
nine o’clock in the morning, expecting to
hear results. As if on cue, there was a knock
at the door and Mrs. Jones entered, followed
by a younger woman, casually dressed, with
fair hair and freckles. This was Samantha
Redwing. She was only twenty-seven, but she

175/667

had risen quickly through the ranks of MI6
to become chief science officer. Redwing had
a photographic memory and the analytical
skills of a world-class chess player. Surpris-
ingly, she was also very normal, with a boy-
friend who worked in advertising, an apart-
ment in Notting Hill Gate, and a proper so-
cial life. Blunt thought she might well be
unique.

The two women sat down. They were each
carrying their copy of the Scorpia file. Blunt
nodded at them. “Good morning. What pro-
gress do we have on this business with Levi
Kroll?”

“We’ve made some headway.” Mrs. Jones
opened her file. She was dressed, as always,
in dark colors, which with her jet-black hair
and dark eyes made her look not just busi-
nesslike but almost as if she were on her way
to a funeral. The next head of MI6? Blunt no-
ticed a sheaf of pages stapled behind the ori-
ginal report. She had, of course, come

176/667

prepared. “First of all, Kroll had been in the
water for around ten hours when he was
found, suggesting that he was shot around
eleven o’clock at night. We’ve examined the
tidal reports for the Thames, and if he was
going to end up being washed ashore at
Southwark, then he would have had to have
entered the water farther east, probably
somewhere around Woolwich.”

That was close to City Airport. A question
formed in Blunt’s mind, but he didn’t inter-
rupt as his deputy considered.

“We’ve been focusing our efforts on the
electronic key card and the information we
were able to retrieve from his iPhone,” Mrs.
Jones went on. “It’s a shame that all his tele-
phone numbers were lost—and the phone it-
self won’t tell us very much. It’s the latest
model, the iPhone 4, purchased in New York
the day it came out.

“But we think we may have decoded the

actual words. They don’t mean very much on

177/667

their own, but you have to put them together
with the other things that Kroll was carrying.
The key to it all is the Times Educational
Supplement that he bought at Heathrow. I
have this week’s edition here.” She produced
a copy and laid it on the desk. “What would a
man like Kroll want with a paper like this?
Was he interested in something that might
involve a school? If we assume that Ju means
June, not July, then the dates—the thirty-
first of May to the fourth of June—just hap-
pen to coincide with the next half-term in
many schools in the UK and around Europe.
We know that Kroll had just come from
Cairo. And Shafik—the name on the
phone—could well be Egyptian.”

“So Scorpia might be interested in a school

somewhere in Egypt.”

“That’s exactly the conclusion we arrived
at and that’s how we’ve been directing our
research.”

178/667

Mrs. Jones unwrapped a peppermint and
slipped it into her mouth. Blunt waited for
her to continue.

“There are twenty-eight men and women

with the surname Shafik working in different
schools around Egypt,” she said. “Eleven of
them are in Cairo. To start with, we assumed
that the figure—forty-three—referred to their
age. That narrowed the field to three and
only one in Cairo, a Mrs. Alifa Shafik, the
headmistress at a primary school. But we
checked her out and there’s nothing that
could possibly make her of interest to an or-
ganization like Scorpia. The school is in a
poor area of the city. We decided that trail
went nowhere.”

Blunt nodded his agreement. He was

quietly impressed. Mrs. Jones had moved
quickly and there was no doubting the logic
of what she had said. “Shafik is a fairly com-
mon name,” he muttered. “The link with the
educational supplement is interesting and it

179/667

may well be that a school is involved. But it
could be in Alexandria or Port Said or even
Luxor. Do we have anything more specific?”

“As a matter of fact we do.” Mrs. Jones

flicked through the pages of the newspaper.
“We read the Times Educational Supplement
from cover to cover, looking for stories that
related to Egypt, trying to make a connec-
tion. There were none—but in the back there
was an advertisement for a new head of se-
curity at the Cairo International College of
Arts and Education, which is in Sheikh
Fayed City in the outskirts of Cairo. That
seemed like quite a coincidence, so we con-
tacted the school. And we discovered
something rather interesting. They need a
new security chief because their last one was
run over and killed as he was arriving for
work. His name, as it happens, was Mo-
hammed Shafik. The driver didn’t stop. The
accident—if it was an accident—took place
two months ago on the fourth of March.”

180/667
Blunt stared at the page. “The fourth of the

third,” he muttered. “Four three. It’s the
same numbers.”

“Exactly.”
“So we can assume that’s why Zeljan Kurst

was in London,” Blunt murmured. “If this
school is recruiting a new security man . . .
Scorpia could be trying to get someone in-
side.” Blunt quickly read the advertisement
in the Times Educational Supplement. A re-
cruitment office in London was handling the
appointment, but it was nowhere near Wool-
wich, the place where Kroll might have been
killed. “Has this agency recruited anyone to
take Mr. Shafik’s place?” he asked.

“Yes. They have. The new man is named

Erik Gunter. Scottish mother, German fath-
er. He was brought up in Glasgow and spent
time with the First Batallion Scots Guards
before he was wounded in Afghanistan. He
received the Queen’s Medal for courage. I
have his file here.”

181/667

She passed it across. Blunt scanned it

briefly. Gunter had come under fire while he
was on patrol in Helmund Province. Accord-
ing to the report, he had almost certainly
saved the lives of his entire platoon, but he
had taken four bullets himself and had been
invalided home.

“What about this business with the vicar?”

Blunt asked. “Does the school have a
chaplain?”

“No.” Mrs. Jones glanced at the science of-

ficer, who had been sitting silently through
all this. “The reference to the vicar wasted a
great deal of time,” she said. “It didn’t seem
to be at all relevant. At first, we assumed it
must be a code name. You’ll remember that
some years ago we dealt with an assassin
who was known only as ‘the Priest.’ But in
the end, Redwing worked it out.”

“It’s a mistake,” Redwing explained. “If

you take the initial letters of the Cairo Inter-
national College of Arts and

182/667

Education—CICAE—and type them into an
Apple iPhone, the machine auto-corrects
them and you get the word vicar.”

“It’s the final confirmation,” Mrs. Jones
added. “Scorpia’s operation has to involve
this school. But just to make sure, I checked
out the electronic key. I sent Crawley out to
Cairo and he reported back this morning.
The school is guarded, fenced in, and
monitored twenty-four hours a day. But
there’s been a security leak. The key opens a
door into the kitchen.”

Blunt sat in silence. Outside, an ambu-

lance raced along Liverpool Street, the
scream of its siren hanging in the air. And
what would it find at the end of its journey?
Another life or another death? “Tell me
about the school,” he said.

Mrs. Jones was ready for this. She

wouldn’t have come to Blunt’s office without
being fully briefed. “The CICAE makes an in-
teresting Scorpia target,” she said. Target.

183/667

That was the other word that had been re-
trieved from the phone. “The school main-
tains a very large security staff—and with
good reason. It has about four hundred chil-
dren from countries all over the world, and if
you look down the names, it’s like a who’s
who of the rich and famous. They’ve got par-
ents who are oil millionaires, politicians, dip-
lomats, sheikhs, princes, and even pop stars.
The Syrian president has a son there. The
British ambassador has a daughter. The
chairman of Texas Oil—one of the biggest oil
companies in America—has no fewer than
three children at the CICAE. Can you ima-
gine if one of them was kidnapped—or worse
still, killed? Suppose Scorpia was planning to
take over the whole school? They could
threaten hundreds of the most powerful par-
ents on the planet. They’d have enough
leverage to start a world war.”

“We can’t be sure that’s what they’re in-
tending,” Blunt said. For a brief moment,

184/667

something entirely different flickered across
his consciousness. Seventeen years as head
of MI6 Special Operations had turned his
brain into a computer that never stopped
functioning. Always there were connections,
connections . . . What was it? Oh yes. A re-
port that had crossed his desk a week before.
The death of that boy in Gibraltar. Julius
Grief. All this talk of schoolchildren had re-
minded him. He considered it for a moment,
then moved on. The boy had tried to escape
in a car and driven over a cliff. The body still
hadn’t been recovered, but there was no way
he could have survived. So that was that. It
couldn’t be related.

“Why else would they target a school?”

Mrs. Jones asked.

“Let’s consider the possibilities.” Blunt

thought for a moment. The eyes behind the
square-framed glasses were bleak. He was
weeks away from retirement. He hadn’t ex-
pected this. “Scorpia is planning an assault

185/667

of some sort on an international school in
Cairo. They send Levi Kroll to London for
reasons that are unclear but that seem to be
connected to the recruitment of this new
head of security. It may well be that Kurst
was in London last February for exactly the
same purpose . . .

“It would seem likely that they’re planning

to put their own man inside the school, al-
though looking at his file, this man Gunter
seems to be beyond reproach. He’s a war
hero, for heaven’s sake! However, I agree
with you. It seems a bit of a coincidence that
the last head of security should have been
taken out by a hit-and-run driver. So . . . let’s
assume that Kroll was killed by a rival organ-
ization, because if it had been his own
people, they’d have made sure he had noth-
ing in his pockets when he was found. In
fact, the body wouldn’t have been found at
all. It seems to me there are two questions
we have to consider. Is this the most likely

explanation of what has occurred? And what
should we do?”

“We could warn the school,” Mrs. Jones

186/667

suggested.

“I’m not so sure. Warn them about what?
We can only guess what Scorpia is planning
and we have no idea when it’s going to hap-
pen. We could talk to the Egyptian govern-
ment, but they’re unlikely to listen to us—be-
sides which, we have to consider the bigger
picture. What about the Syrians, the Americ-
ans, and all the other families? If we tell
them about this, we’ll have half the intelli-
gence agencies in the world at each other’s
throats. It could all turn into a complete
mess.”

“But if Scorpia knew we were onto them,

they might decide not to proceed.”

“Exactly.”
Mrs. Jones saw the glint in Blunt’s eye and
suddenly she understood. “You want them to
go ahead,” she said.

187/667

“I want them to try,” Blunt agreed. “We

could turn this whole thing into a trap. Just
for once, we’re one step ahead of them, and if
they actually decide to make a move, this
could be an opportunity to finish them, once
and for all.”

“But you wouldn’t seriously risk the lives
of the children at this international school?”
“Of course not. We’ll put an agent inside to

keep an eye on the situation, and the mo-
ment Scorpia shows themselves, we’ll be
ready for them.” Blunt thought for a mo-
ment. “What we need—,” he began.

“No.” It was unheard of for Mrs. Jones to
interrupt her superior when he was speak-
ing. But she did so now. “We can’t do it.”

Blunt blinked slowly. “You know what I’m

thinking.”

Of course she did. Mrs. Jones had spent

hundreds of hours with Blunt. Soon she
might replace him. She knew him inside out.
“We can’t use Alex,” she said.

188/667

“I’m sure you’re right, Mrs. Jones. But you
must admit that this would have been exactly
the sort of mission for him. Put a fourteen-
year-old into a school and nobody would
look twice. Just like at Point Blanc.”

“Alex is fifteen now,” Mrs. Jones reminded

him. “And that business in Kenya was the
end of it, Alan.” She didn’t often use his
Christian name when there were other
people in the room, but for now she ignored
Redwing, who had lapsed back into silence,
waiting her turn. “He was badly hurt . . .
burned. He was in the hospital again. We
both agreed. He’s been through enough.”

“I’m not sure I agreed.”
“We also have orders from Downing

Street.” Mrs. Jones didn’t dare disobey an in-
struction that came directly from the prime
minister, not when she might be weeks away
from taking over at MI6.

Blunt understood that. “I still suggest we

put one of our people inside,” he said.

189/667

Mrs. Jones relaxed. “As a teacher?”
“A teacher or a cleaner. Get Crawley onto

it. Smithers to provide surveillance and com-
munications equipment. In the meantime,
let’s keep an eye on all known Scorpia
agents, particularly if they show up anywhere
near the Egyptian border.” He turned to
Redwing, as if noticing her for the first time.
“Your thoughts, Redwing?”

“I just have a couple of things to add, sir,”
Redwing said. “I have no argument with any-
thing that Mrs. Jones has said, but it does
seem a little odd that Kroll would have flown
into Heathrow Airport and then traveled all
the way across London to Woolwich, if that
really was where he was killed. Why didn’t he
just fly into City Airport? It would have been
much closer.”

Blunt was pleased. It was exactly the same

thought that had already occurred to him.
“There are no direct flights from Cairo,” he

190/667

said. “But for that matter, why didn’t he use
a private jet?”

“What really puzzles me is the medical re-

port. First of all, from the contents of the
dead man’s stomach, we know that the last
meal he ate included snails, roast pork, pota-
toes, and some sort of dessert made with
Grand Marnier. It’s the sort of meal you
might eat in Paris or London, but it’s not ex-
actly what you’d expect from a man who’d
just flown in from Cairo.”

“What do you mean?”
“Well, even in first class, he wouldn’t have
been served snails on the plane. And pork is
an unusual choice in a Muslim country. For
that matter we found no Egyptian spices or
herbs of any sort. No rice or falafel. Of
course, he could have been staying in an in-
ternational hotel. He may hate Egyptian
food. But it still feels strange.”

“And there’s something else?”

191/667

“Yes, sir. When we examined the body, we
found a tiny fragment of glass buried in the
back of the neck. It had been driven in by the
impact of the bullet.” Redwing paused. “It’s
certainly possible that Kroll was shot in Lon-
don, somewhere close to the River Thames.
He could have been standing on one of the
banks or perhaps on a bridge. He was shot
and fell into the water.

“But the fragment of glass tells another
story. He was inside, on the other side of a
window. In which case the body was then
taken and dumped in the river. But if that
was what happened, what was the point? Is it
possible that the body was meant to be
found?”

“And you’re suggesting that the note was

planted?” Blunt considered. “But why would
Scorpia want us to know what they were
doing?”

“It doesn’t make any sense to me, sir,”

Redwing admitted.

There was a long silence. Blunt made his

192/667

decision.

“We’ll go ahead and put someone in the

school,” he said. “It may be a complete waste
of time, but I can’t see that it will do any
harm. Still, it’s a shame to waste the re-
sources of an active agent.”

Mrs. Jones glanced at him. Once again,
she saw what was going through his mind.
Alex Rider would already be on his way to
Cairo if Blunt had his way.

But it wasn’t going to happen. Alex Rider

was history. Mrs. Jones had never said as
much to him, but she had promised it to her-
self, and no matter what her own future was
within MI6, it was one promise she was de-
termined not to break.

PART TWO

ALEX

7

ANGLE OF ATTACK

“ALEX! YOU’VE OVERSLEPT AGAIN. Get
yourself out of bed!”

Jack Starbright was standing in the door-

way of Alex’s bedroom on the first floor of
the house they shared near the King’s Road
in Chelsea. It was seven forty-five in the
morning and he should have been up and
getting dressed, but all she could see was the
back of his head with a clump of messy light
brown hair poking out from underneath the
duvet and the curve of his body beneath.

“Alex . . .,” she said again.
A hand appeared, clutched hold of the pil-

low, and dragged it down. “What day is it,

195/667

Jack?” The voice came from nowhere,
muffled beneath the bedclothes.
“It’s Friday. It’s a school day.”
“I don’t want to go to school.”
“Yes, you do.”
“What’s for breakfast?”
“You’ll find out when you’ve had your

shower.”

Jack closed the bedroom door and a few

seconds later Alex emerged from bed, wrink-
ling his eyes against the morning light. He
threw back the covers and rolled into a sit-
ting position, looking around the wreck that
was his room. There were crumpled clothes
on the floor, school-books and folders every-
where, DVDs and games stacked up beside
his computer, posters peeling off the walls.
He and Jack had actually had one of their
very rare arguments a few weeks before. It
wasn’t that she wanted him to tidy the room.
That wasn’t the problem. In fact, it was the
other way around. He had insisted that she

196/667

stop tidying it for him—as she had done
every day for the last eight years. In the end
she had understood. This was his space. And
this was the way he wanted it.

He stripped off his pajamas and stumbled
into the shower. The blast of hot water woke
him up instantly and he stood there, letting it
pound onto his shoulders and back. This was
his favorite part of the morning, five minutes
when he didn’t belong to anyone—not to
Jack and not to Brookland School—when he
could collect his thoughts and prepare him-
self for whatever the day might throw his
way.

He wasn’t a spy anymore. That was the im-

portant thing. That was what he had to re-
mind himself. Four months had passed
without so much as a whisper from MI6. He
had made it through the second half of the
spring term and the first five weeks of the
summer without being recruited, kidnapped,
or forced into some hare-brained mission on

197/667

the other side of the world. He was getting
used to the fact that it was never going to
happen again. He was tall now, five foot ten.
His shoulders had broadened and he had vir-
tually lost the little-boy looks that had been
so useful to Alan Blunt and Mrs. Jones. His
hair was longer. He was fifteen years old.
There had been times when he had thought it
was a birthday he would never see.

And what had happened in those four

months? School, of course. Alex had even be-
gun to think about college . . . It would be
only three years away. He already knew that
science and math were his strong suits. His
physics teacher, Mrs. Morant, insisted that
he had a natural talent. “I can see you at Ox-
ford or Cambridge, Alex. If you just apply
yourself and try to turn up for school a little
more often.” Then there were sports. Alex
had been chosen as the captain of the first
team at soccer. And drama—he was playing
Teen Angel in the summer production of

198/667
Grease, although he still wasn’t convinced he
could actually sing.

He seemed to be at home less and less,
hanging out on the King’s Road with Tom
Harris and James Hale, who were still his
two best friends. He played soccer on week-
ends and had joined a rowing club near
Hammer-smith. He was in the fifteen-to-
twenty-one group, and he loved the rhythm
of it, slicing through the water on a Saturday
afternoon, down through Putney and Rich-
mond and on to Hampton Court, even if his
muscles ached for the rest of the weekend.
The cox, barking out instructions with an
old-fashioned bullhorn, was a girl of his own
age, Rowan Gently, and she was obviously
interested in him. He had joked that her
name sounded like their progress up the
Thames.

But he was still seeing Sabina—even if
most of their contact was made through
Facebook. It wasn’t easy being thousands of

199/667

miles apart with an eight-hour time differ-
ence so that while Alex was getting up and
frantically grabbing his clothes, she was still
sound asleep. It was almost as if they were
on different planets, and part of him knew
that if she didn’t return to England soon, it
would be almost impossible to maintain
their friendship.

He had seen her quite recently. Her par-

ents had invited him out for ten days during
the Easter holidays, and Jack had stumped
up the cost of the transatlantic flight. It had
given her a chance to have a break too.

It had been a fantastic vacation . . .

something the two of them had promised
themselves after their near-death encounter
with Desmond McCain in Scotland at the
start of the year. They had explored San
Francisco—the Golden Gate Bridge, Fisher-
man’s Wharf, Alcatraz prison—and driven
down the winding coastal road to Big Sur,
where they had spent the weekend hiking

200/667

and camping in some of the most stunning
countryside in California.

As he pulled on his trousers and set about

trying to find two matching socks, Alex re-
membered the last night he had spent with
Sabina. The two of them had sat together on
the porch of the white-painted wooden house
that Edward Pleasure had rented in Pacific
Heights, a quiet, leafy part of the city. It was
a brilliant night, the sky deep black and
scattered with stars.

“I wish you didn’t have to go back.”
“Me too,” Alex said.
“It’s crazy. You’re my closest friend and

you’re thousands of miles away.”

“When do you think you’ll come back to

England?”

Sabina sighed. “I’m not sure we ever will.
Dad’s doing really well out here and he’s got
his green card now, which means he can live
here permanently. And Mum likes it.” She

201/667

put her arm around his neck. “Do you think
we’ll stay together, Alex?”

“I don’t know.” There didn’t seem any

point in lying. “You’ll probably meet some
American football player and I’ll never hear
from you again.”

“You know that’s not true.” Sabina paused.

“Maybe you can come back in the summer.
You know you’re always welcome. We could
go to Yellowstone. Or maybe to LA . . .”

“I’d like that.”
Alex remembered how Sabina had looked

at him then. But it was the way she had
kissed him good-bye that he remembered
most.

Alex grabbed a shirt, but before he put it

on, he turned around and examined his
shoulders in the mirror. It was something he
did automatically, every day. The burns had
faded, but they were still there like a series of
exclamation marks, the scars from the burn-
ing aviation fuel that had rained down on

202/667

him in the airfield in Laikipia, Kenya. The
doctors had told him they would probably
stay with him for life. Well, he could add
them to the museum of injuries that his body
had become. The bullet wound in his chest,
the various bruises, the thin white line that
had been seared across the back of his hand
by, of all things, a poisonous spider’s web.
Did he miss it? Did he mind being an or-

dinary schoolboy once again? Alex felt he
had passed through a tunnel. There had been
a brief time when he had needed the danger,
when he was almost glad to be part of the
secret world of MI6. After all, that was what
he had been trained for virtually all his life.
His father had been a spy. His uncle, Ian
Rider, had been a spy. Between the two of
them, they had made sure he would follow in
what had become a family tradition.

But now he was out in the light. Enough

time had passed since Kenya to remind him
that real life was better. Herod Sayle, Dr.

203/667

Grief, Mrs. Rothman, Major Sarov, Damian
Cray, Winston Yu, and most recently, Des-
mond McCain. He had come up against them
and they were all dead. It was time now to
leave them behind.

He glanced at his watch. Despite Jack’s

wake-up call, he was going to be late for
school—and this in the week when the prin-
cipal, Mr. Lee, had announced double deten-
tion for latecomers, part of Brookland’s
annual crack-down on personal discipline.
One term it had been crooked ties and shirts
out of pants. The next it had been chewing
gum. Now it was timekeeping. It was good to
have such little things to worry about. Alex
buttoned up his shirt and looped his tie over
his head. Then he hurried down to the kit-
chen for breakfast.

There were two soft-boiled eggs waiting

for him on the table. Alex was amused to see
that Jack still insisted on cutting his toast in-
to Marmite soldiers. She was making coffee

204/667
for herself and tea for him, and as he took his
place, she brought the two cups over.

“Alex—you look a complete mess. Your

tie’s crooked, you haven’t brushed your hair,
and that shirt’s crumpled.”

“It’s only school, Jack.”
“If I ran the school, I wouldn’t let you in.”
She set the two cups on the table and sat

down herself, watching fondly as Alex sliced
off the tops of his eggs and dipped the first
soldier in. “Have you got any plans this
weekend?” she asked. “I thought maybe after
you finished rowing, we could take off some-
where . . . get out of London.”

“Actually, I’m away this weekend.” Alex

had forgotten to tell her.

“Where?”
“Tom’s invited me over. His brother’s

coming over from Italy and we thought we’d
get together.” Tom Harris was as much of a
mess as ever, living with his mother after his
father had walked out. Alex had met his

205/667

brother, Jerry, when he’d first gone chasing
after Scorpia, in Rome. Tom and Jerry. As
Tom often said, the names told you
everything you needed to know about their
parents.

“Okay. That’s fine. I’ll put out a toothbrush

and a spare set of clothes.”

Was there something in Jack’s voice? Alex

glanced in her direction, but she seemed
okay. She looked the way she always did—re-
laxed and a bit ramshackle, dressed in a T-
shirt, jeans, and a loose-fitting cardigan. She
was sitting with her elbows on the table,
cradling her coffee cup and smiling. But just
for a moment she hadn’t quite sounded like
herself. It was as if she had something on her
mind.

“Is something the matter?” Alex asked.
“No!” She pulled herself together. “No. I’m

sorry. I just stayed up a little too late last
night and I’m a bit tired.”

206/667

That would make sense. Jack had recently
started teaching herself Italian. Alex wasn’t
quite sure why, although one of the reasons
might have been the Italian teacher who was
twenty-nine, dark, and built like a boxer. She
was certainly taking it seriously with private
lessons twice a week and tapes every night.
“You’re not worrying about me, are you? I

haven’t heard a thing from MI6.”

“I know,” Jack said. “It’s not that.” She

shook her head. “It’s nothing. I’m fine.”

Ten minutes later, Alex was on his way,

cycling to school on the new Raleigh Pioneer
160 that he’d bought to replace his old
Condor Roadracer. It wouldn’t have been his
first choice, but he’d managed to get a deal
from the supplier and it was perfect for get-
ting around London, not too flashy, not
likely to get stolen. And after he’d changed
the seat to an ergonomically designed Rido
R2, it was comfortable enough too. Glancing
around, he saw Jack standing at the door,

207/667

waving him good-bye. That was strange too.
Normally, she wouldn’t have left the kitchen.
But it was a beautiful spring day. The sun
was shining. Alex forgot about her as he ac-
celerated toward the King’s Road. A moment
later he had turned the corner and he was
gone.

Jack closed the door.

She was annoyed with herself. She still

hadn’t talked to Alex about the letter she had
received a week ago. It was typical of her
mother to put it all down with pen and paper
rather than to telephone or send an e-mail.
Her parents weren’t that old, only in their
sixties, but they had always been
purposefully old-fashioned—as if they were
determined to show that their world was bet-
ter than the one that was taking shape all
around them.

And now her father was ill. He’d had a

stroke at the start of the spring and he

208/667

needed someone to look after him. Jack’s
mother did what she could. Jack had an
older sister, but she was living in Florida
with three young children of her own. Jack
had now been in England for coming up to
ten years and her mother was suggesting,
very gently, that she ought to think about
coming home.

And in her heart, Jack knew that she was

right. Maybe it was time to go.

It wasn’t just because of her father. She

had her own future to think about. Here she
was in London, almost thirty and single. She
had first come to England as a student with a
place at St. Martin’s School of Art, planning
to become a jewelry designer. She had star-
ted working for Ian Rider to pay the fees and
somehow she had allowed herself to get
sucked into his world. In the early days, she
would live at the Chelsea house when Ian
Rider was abroad, taking Alex to school, then
slipping away to do her studies until it was

209/667

time to pick him up. But Ian had been away
more and more often until it had made sense
to move in permanently. Suddenly, without
ever really choosing it, she had become part
of the family, almost a big sister for Alex. She
had adored him from the start, even when he
was seven years old. And she felt sorry for
him too. She had been told that both his par-
ents had died in a plane crash, and she could
see that Ian Rider was no substitute, not
when he traveled so much.

And then Ian Rider had died and

everything had changed.

Had she ever wondered about her employ-

er? He had told her he worked in interna-
tional banking and she had taken his word
for it, but looking back, she knew that she
had been foolish. No international banker
kept three different passports in his desk
drawer. Jack had come upon them once,
looking for a pair of scissors, and she had

210/667

asked him about them. It was the only time
Ian Rider had ever been angry with her.

“Never ask me about my work, Jack. It’s
the one thing I’ll never talk about. Not with
you. Not with Alex . . .”

She could hear his voice now and

wondered how she could have been so stu-
pid. No international bankers stayed away
for weeks at a time—and certainly none of
them returned with so many inexplicable in-
juries. Ian had been mugged in Rome, in-
volved in a car crash in Geneva, and broken
his arm skiing in Vancouver. He had joked
about it, saying he was accident prone . . .
until, that is, the final accident had revealed
the truth.

What Alex didn’t know, what Jack had

never told him, was that she had actually de-
cided to leave two weeks before Ian Rider
had set off for Cornwall on the mission that
had killed him. She had even gone as far as
typing out her resignation letter. She had felt

211/667

dreadful—but thinking about it, she was sure
she was doing the right thing. She wasn’t go-
ing to be a nanny and a housekeeper forever,
and the longer she stayed, the harder it
would finally be to break the bonds with
Alex. She would still be his friend, visiting
whenever she could. But it was definitely
time to move on.

And then the news had come of Ian’s

death, the funeral, the first meeting with
Alan Blunt, and the almost incredible truth
that Ian had been a spy, working for MI6 all
along. That was when Alex had been re-
cruited. And what had persuaded Alex to risk
his life that first time, investigating the
Stormbreaker computer? He hadn’t done it
for his country. He hadn’t done it out of re-
spect for his uncle. No—MI6 had threatened
to expel Jack from the country, and he had
agreed to help them in return for a perman-
ent visa so that she could stay.

212/667

How could she abandon him after that? As
far as Jack knew, Alex had no living relatives.
She had tried to find some trace of his grand-
parents, but it seemed that all four of them
had died young. There were no uncles or
aunts. The closest relative she’d been able to
dig up was a cousin living in Glossop, and
she couldn’t quite imagine Alex starting a
new life there. And so she had stayed. She
was almost the only person in the world who
knew his secret. So long as he was involved
with MI6, nobody could take her place.

All that seemed to be behind them now.

The last time she had seen Mrs. Jones, it had
been a few days before Alex’s fifteenth birth-
day at St. Dominic’s Hospital in north Lon-
don. Alex had just gotten back from
Kenya—badly hurt—and that was when she
had finally put her foot down and insisted
that there would be no further missions, that
from now on MI6 would leave him alone.
Mrs. Jones had made no promises, but Jack

213/667

had sensed that maybe she had won the ar-
gument. Certainly, she had heard nothing
since.

In truth, Alex was probably too old for

them now. He didn’t look like a child any-
more. Jack remembered how he had once
crawled up a chimney when he was training
with the SAS. He wouldn’t be able to manage
that again. There were probably SAS men
who were smaller than him now.

But if Jack was relieved that this part of
their lives was behind them, there was one
side effect that she hadn’t foreseen. Alex
didn’t need her so much now. That was what
it all boiled down to. He wasn’t going to
come home wounded with burns or bullet
holes. There was no need to protect him. And
the two of them were growing apart. Re-
cently Alex had begun spending more and
more time without her, with his friends. Take
this weekend, for example. He’d casually
mentioned that he was taking off with Tom

214/667

Harris and hadn’t even stopped to consider
that he would be leaving her on her own. It
was the same last spring, when he’d been
away for two weeks with Sabina. Jack didn’t
mind. It was how it should be. He was a
teenager. But she didn’t feel wanted. And
that told her that—at last—it was time to
move on.

All she had to do was tell Alex. She would
leave at the end of the summer vacation and
together they would find someone to take
her place. Of course he’d be sad. He’d prob-
ably argue with her, but in the end he’d see it
her way. Jack got up and set about clearing
the breakfast things. She had put it off too
many times already, but her mind was set.
She would talk to him when he got home
tonight.

“Okay. We’re going to start with a warm-up.”
Grant Donovan, head of math at Brookland
School, pressed a button and six geometric

215/667

shapes appeared on the whiteboard. Each
one had an angle marked x. “In three of
these diagrams, x equals forty-five degrees,”
he explained. You’ve got five minutes to tell
me which, and the first person to finish gets
this week’s bonus prize.”

“I hope it’s better than last week’s bonus

prize,” someone called out.

“The last one of you to finish gets a page of

negative multiplications to take home.”

There was a general groan and everyone

put their heads down.

Alex tried to concentrate on the shapes,
but they were just floating in front of him,
refusing to come into focus. All the triangles
looked the same to him, like one of those
puzzles in a “spot the difference” magazine.
It had been the same in English Lit an hour
before, trying to make sense of a passage
from Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night. “If music
be the food of love . . .” Or was it “the love of
food,” and what did it mean, anyway? He

216/667

was finding it hard to think. He could see the
words on the page, but they refused to come
together to make sentences.

He put his pen down and ignored the tri-
angles. There was something on his mind,
and he wouldn’t be able to do anything until
he had worked out what it was. He played
back the events of the day. He had gotten out
of bed as usual, showered, and dressed. He’d
actually finished his homework the night be-
fore—nothing to worry about there. He knew
his lines for the school play. No money wor-
ries. He still had plenty left from his weekly
allowance.

Then down to breakfast. He replayed the
conversation with Jack and in particular the
moment he had told her he would be away
for the weekend. That was it. She’d been up-
set. He’d actually challenged her about it,
and although she’d denied it, he could tell
from her voice . . .

217/667
Now that he thought about it, Alex realized
that the two of them had been spending less
time together recently. What with home-
work, the school play, the rowing, and all the
rest of it, there were days when they hardly
spoke at all. Suddenly he was ashamed of
himself. Jack had always been there for him.
She was always looking after him. But he’d
given her the impression that she didn’t mat-
ter to him at all.

He glanced out the window. There was a
building site across the road, a new block of
apartments going up opposite the school.
Everyone was already joking about who ex-
actly would want to live with a view of seven
hundred teenagers—not to mention the noise
at half past eight in the morning and a
quarter to four every afternoon. The site was
empty today. The builders seemed to come in
more or less when they felt like it, but Alex
noticed a single man making his way across

218/667

the roof in a crouching run with a bag slung
across his shoulder.

What to do about Jack? Alex made a resol-

ution. He would talk to her tonight. He
would tell her that he would be lost without
her and that he needed her as much as he al-
ways had. Of course she knew all this, but it
was still worth saying. And he didn’t have to
spend the whole weekend with Tom. Maybe
he could come back on Sunday afternoon
and the two of them could go over to Bor-
ough Market or something. The thought
made Alex feel more comfortable, and he
turned his attention back to the first of the
triangles. ABC was a right angle . . . ninety
degrees. The other two angles couldn’t pos-
sibly be the same, so no forty-five degrees
here. Cross that one out and move on to the
next.

Three desks away, a lean ginger-haired

boy named Spencer was aiming a missile at
someone in the front row. He was balancing

219/667

a piece of eraser on a plastic ruler that he
was bending back. He released the ruler,
catapulting the eraser across the room. It
missed the boy in the front row and bounced
off the wall. Someone sniggered.

Mr. Donovan had seen him. “If you want
to stay in the top group, Spencer, try not to
behave like a fifth-grader. Okay?” He soun-
ded more tired than annoyed.

“Yes, sir.”
“Two more minutes. You should have

cracked half of them by now.”

Alex was nowhere near. He was suddenly

aware that he wasn’t feeling very well. It
wasn’t particularly hot in the classroom, but
he was sweating. The skin on his forehead
and the back of his neck was damp, as if he
had caught a fever. There was a pounding in
his head and he was almost finding it diffi-
cult to breathe. What was wrong with him? It
was eleven o’clock in the morning. He hadn’t
had lunch yet, so for once the cafeteria

220/667

couldn’t be blamed. He felt a pain in his
chest and realized that his old wound was
throbbing like some sort of biological alarm
clock that had just gone off. As if it was re-
minding him . . .

Or warning him.
The man on the roof. Suddenly Alex was

back on Liverpool Street, stepping out of the
offices of MI6 seconds before a sniper had
opened fire with a bullet that had knocked
him to the ground, almost killing him. What
had he seen—out of the corner of his eye?
No. It was impossible. It couldn’t be happen-
ing again. Not here. Very slowly, forcing
himself not to give anything away, Alex
turned his head. He was just a bored school-
boy looking out the window, he told himself.
If there really was someone there, if they
were focusing on him even now, he mustn’t
give them an excuse to fire.

Because the man was a sniper. He had no

doubt of it. Why else would he be running

221/667

with his head down and his shoulders
hunched unless he was trying not to be no-
ticed? And what sort of builder carries a
long, narrow leather bag across his back?
There was no sign of him now, but Alex visu-
alized the shape and the size of the bag and
knew with the ice-cold grip of certainty ex-
actly what it must have contained. Not a
shovel. Not a drill. Not anything you might
use to construct a block of apartments. Any-
way, nobody was working there today. This
man was there for something else.

And he was still up there somewhere, hid-

ing. Alex looked again, scanning the seem-
ingly empty roof. Yes. There he was, lying
flat on his stomach with his head pointing
this way. He was partly concealed behind a
wall of scaffolding with a plastic sheet
hanging in front of him like a flimsy window.
Alex couldn’t see the gun, but he could sense
it and knew there could be only one target it
was aiming at.

222/667

There is a sort of telepathy between the
hunter and the hunted, between the sniper
and his target. Alex couldn’t possibly know
when the man was going to fire, but he
jerked back instinctively, and it seemed to
him that there was a faint tinkle and a thud
at exactly that same moment. Right in front
of him a gash appeared as if by magic in the
surface of his desk, splinters of wood flying
upward. Alex stared at the damage. The
enormity of what had just happened flooded
over him. Someone had taken a shot at him.
Someone had tried to kill him. If he had still
been leaning forward over his notepad, the
bullet would have driven into the top of his
head.

“Alex . . . ?” Mr. Donovan had seen the

movement, but he hadn’t noticed the tiny,
round hole in the window. Even if he had, it
would have taken him several more seconds
to put it all together. Snipers do not fire into
school classrooms—certainly not in England.

223/667

As far as he could see, Alex had just had
some sort of fit. Either that or he had been
stung by a wasp. One or two of the other
boys were looking around curiously. The dia-
grams on the whiteboard suddenly seemed a
thousand miles away.

“Get down!” Alex didn’t shout, but there

could be no mistaking the urgency in his
voice. “Someone’s shooting at us.”

“What?”
Alex was already on his feet, backing away

from his desk, moving out of the gunman’s
sight line before he could fire a second shot.
He knew that while he was in the room, he
was putting the entire class in danger. Sever-
al of the boys around him had stood up,
making themselves targets. Some of them
had noticed the hole in the window and knew
he was telling the truth. Panic was already
sweeping through the room.

“Get down!” This time he shouted the

words louder, but they still just stood there.

224/667

Of course, this was Alex Rider. Everyone
knew the rumors about him—that he was in-
volved in things that it was better not to talk
about. But this situation was just too incred-
ible. It couldn’t be happening.

And then there was a second shot. Tom

Harris yelled and spun around, and to Alex’s
horror he saw that his best friend had been
shot in the arm, that his jacket was torn, and
that blood was already seeping through the
sleeve.

“Everyone on the floor!” Mr. Donovan had

finally taken command, and his order was
followed by the crash of upturned desks and
chairs as twenty-two boys dived for cover.
Tom was the last to react, still in shock, one
hand gripping his wound. Alex glanced at the
window, knowing that he couldn’t offer him-
self as a target. But if the man fired again,
Tom would be directly in his line of fire. Alex
ran three paces and threw himself at his
friend, rugby-tackling him to the ground.

225/667

Tom howled with pain. His face was com-
pletely white.

Bells began to clang all over the school.
Alex hadn’t seen him do it, but he guessed
Mr. Donovan must have hit the fire alarm
before taking cover himself. Everyone was
huddling together against the side wall. Alex
propped Tom up, quickly examining his
wound. There was blood everywhere—it was
all over Alex’s hands—but he didn’t think his
friend had been too badly hurt. A flesh
wound only. If Tom had been unlucky, the
bullet might just have chipped a bone, but
Alex was sure it had gone straight in and out.
“Nobody move!” Mr. Donovan was shout-
ing. “We’re safe here. The police and the fire
engines will be on their way.”

Brilliant. The rest of the school would be

evacuating into the yard, making themselves
perfect targets for the man on the roof. Alex
thought of warning the math teacher, trying
to explain what had just happened. But then

226/667

he realized that it didn’t matter. This wasn’t
a case of a psychopath with a grudge against
kids. The man had come here for him.

And with that thought came a surge of an-
ger so powerful that Alex felt himself almost
overwhelmed. He had given up spying. He
hadn’t been near MI6 for months. He was
just a schoolboy trying to get through the
day. But someone thought otherwise.
Someone had made the cold-blooded de-
cision to send a man with a gun to kill him
and to hurt anyone else who happened to get
in the way. Who was it? Was this revenge for
something Alex had done in the past? Or was
this some new enemy with a plan of his own?

Alex had to know. If the sniper got away

today, he would be free to come back tomor-
row or the day after. In fact, Alex would be in
permanent danger. In the space of a second
he had been plunged back into his old life
and he didn’t want to be there. He was
furious.

227/667

“Alex! What do you think you’re doing?”
Alex was already on his feet. Mr. Donovan
stared at him, still crouching, afraid to move.
“Don’t leave, Alex! You’ve got to stay here!”
But he was too late. Alex had crossed the
room and thrown open the door. A second
later he had disappeared into the corridor,
fighting his way past the rest of the school as
they surged down the corridors, following
the well-practiced fire drills that would take
them outside.

As he burst into the yard, he was already
fumbling for his keys, heading for the bike
shed. The bells were still ringing. All around
him, seven hundred schoolboys were chat-
tering and laughing, looking out for the
smoke while their teachers tried to shout
them into straight lines. Alex ignored them.
He found his bike, unlocked it, and jumped
on.

“Alex?” Miss Bedfordshire, the school sec-
retary, had seen him. She tried to wave him

down. Alex ignored her. He pushed down
and swerved around her and then he was
gone, disappearing through the school gates.

228/667

8

FLYING LESSON

A SITTING TARGET.

That was how Alex felt. He was cycling
slowly around the side of the school right
next to the building site where the marks-
man had been concealed, and he was very
aware that the street was empty with only a
few parked cars, that there were no wit-
nesses, and that if the sniper was still in
place, this time he wouldn’t miss. He could
imagine the crosshairs of the scope sweeping
across the street, settling first on his
shoulders, then on the back of his neck. Per-
haps they were already there and one twitch
of a finger would send him catapulting over
the handlebars and into oblivion.

230/667

He jerked his head up toward the rooftop
but saw nothing. Alex was gambling on the
fact that the man had already made his get-
away. He would have heard the school
alarms go off and would have assumed that
Alex had been evacuated with the rest of his
class, that he was lost in the crowd, one uni-
form among hundreds. Surely that was what
he would think. And with the police arriving
(Alex could hear them now, the whoop of
sirens coming from all four points of the
compass, closing in on the school), he
wouldn’t want to hang around.

Where was he? Alex had hoped to spot

him as he left. But there was nobody in the
building site, no sign of any movement on
the roof or the ladders leading down. He
drew to a halt, resting with one foot against
the curb, listening for the sound of an en-
gine. Somewhere, on the other side of the
scaffolding and the half-built walls, there
was someone in a hurry to get out of here.

231/667

Where are you? Every police car in the coun-
try will be here in a minute. You don’t want
to hang around.

Without warning, a car appeared at the top

of the road, a silver VW Golf, pulling out of
the building site and turning away from
where Alex was waiting. He couldn’t see the
driver, but he thought, from the shape, that
it was a man and he seemed to be alone. It
had to be the sniper. Alex pushed off again.
Behind him, the alarms were still ringing at
Brookland School. He heard the first police
cars arrive, the thud of slamming doors, and
men’s voices barking out commands. There
was no time to lose. Any minute now the
roads would be cordoned off. If he was really
unlucky, the sniper would get away while he
was left behind.

The VW was driving quickly but without

breaking the speed limit, as if not wanting to
draw attention to itself. Alex pedaled harder
to catch up—at the same time making sure

232/667

he didn’t get too close. It occurred to him
that he had done this before, almost a year
ago. Then it had been two drug dealers in a
Skoda. He had followed them to a houseboat
on the Thames, near Putney Bridge. He’d
never thought he was going to have to repeat
the exercise . . . and this time it was going to
be more difficult. The dealers had had no
idea who he was. But one look in the mirror
and the sniper would certainly recognize
him. Alex swung his bike off the road and
onto the sidewalk, crouching behind the
parked cars to keep out of sight.

London is the slowest-moving city in

Europe. Cars drive at an average of twelve
miles per hour, and it’s well known that the
fastest way to cross the city is on two wheels.
As Alex powered up the sidewalk, he re-
membered his uncle, Ian Rider, complaining
as he sat in a jam. “I don’t know why I bother
with a BMW six-cylinder turbocharged en-
gine. I might as well drive a horse and

233/667

buggy.” Alex knew that his bike would have
the edge on the VW. He could weave in and
out of the traffic. He could ignore the lights.
He could cut corners across the sidewalk.
Provided they didn’t reach any of the outer
motorways, he’d be able to keep up.

The car reached a T-junction and turned

left, heading toward the King’s Road. Before
it disappeared from sight, Alex memorized
its license plate number. The letters spelled
out a word—BEG 88. There were plenty of
Volkswagens on the London roads and most
of them seemed to be silver. It was helpful
that this one should have a registration that
was so easily memorable. Still on the side-
walk, Alex swung around the corner, nar-
rowly missing a woman pushing a stroller.
The Raleigh 160 was perfect for this sort of
cycling. It wasn’t too heavy and the 700cc al-
loy wheels were perfectly balanced, making it
easy to manipulate while its twenty-one
gears gave him all the speed he could ask for.

234/667

They were heading west, out of London. The
school was already a long way behind.

And then the VW signaled right. Alex

looked for the turnoff but there wasn’t one.
They were passing a parade of shops with an
Esso garage at the end. And that was where
the car was heading. Alex swore to himself.
He must have been chasing the wrong man!
Snipers pulling away from their latest target
don’t usually stop to fill up with gas or buy
themselves a Twix. Alex stopped for a second
time, catching his breath as the VW rolled
across the forecourt. He thought about cyc-
ling back to Brookland, then decided against
it. There would be too many questions to an-
swer. It would be easier just to go home and
find Jack.

The car wasn’t filling up. Without stop-

ping, it had driven straight into the automat-
ic car wash—and that was strange because
there was a large sign reading OUT OF
ORDER. From his vantage point on the other

235/667
side of the road, Alex watched in puzzlement.
As far as he could see, the driver hadn’t even
opened his window to drop a token into a
slot, and yet as the VW disappeared behind
the plastic screen, the brushes begin to rotate
and jets of water shot out of the hoses run-
ning along the walls. It was as if the car wash
had been waiting for the car. The sign must
have been put there to stop any other drivers
getting in ahead.

Alex stayed where he was, waiting for the

VW to emerge. He was certain now that
something strange was going on and that
this was after all connected in some way with
the shooting at his school. He could only
make out the shape of the car. It was lost in
the cloud of white foam that mushroomed
against the plastic screen. Water and soap
suds coursed along the concrete floor. The
whole process took four minutes. At last the
brush stopped and returned to its starter

236/667

position, and a few seconds later the VW
drove out.

Only it was no longer silver. It was now

bright red. Had it been painted inside the car
wash? No—exactly the opposite had
happened. The silver paint had been stripped
off to reveal the red beneath and the license
plate had changed too. Parts of the letters
had been washed away so that BEG now read
PFC and the number 88 had become 33. This
was all part of the plan! The driver had
known that the police would be called. After
a school shooting, every police car in London
would be on the lookout for the getaway
vehicle. Well, if they were looking for a silver
VW with the license plate BEG 88, they
would be disappointed. That car had van-
ished into thin air.

Alex knew now that this wasn’t one man
operating on his own. It would have taken a
serious organization to arrange the trick with
the car wash. Scorpia? The triads? They were

237/667

both enemies of his, but he somehow
doubted that either of them would come for
him now, after months of inactivity. There
would be no point. Even so, he would have to
be careful. The car could be leading him into
further danger and he was completely on his
own. Only Miss Bedfordshire had seen him
leave the school and she had no idea which
direction he’d taken. Only a few hours ago
he’d been congratulating himself that all his
troubles were over. How wrong he had been!
He followed the car down the King’s Road
as far as Eel Brook Common, a small patch of
green parkland crowded with Chelsea resid-
ents walking their dogs. The car was pulling
away, traveling at about thirty miles per
hour, but luckily it was forced to stop at a red
traffic light and Alex was able to catch up. He
was absolutely determined. Whatever
happened, he wasn’t going to let it get away.
But then the car turned off down
Wandsworth Bridge Road, driving straight

238/667

down to the Thames. Alex gritted his teeth
and stamped down on the pedals. He knew
that the roads widened on the other side of
the bridge. A bicycle could keep up with a car
in the traffic, but once they were over the
river, he’d have no chance.

They stopped again and Alex was tempted
to move closer, to try to get a view in through
the side window. It might help later on if he
could give the police a description of the
driver. All he could see from here was a
hunched-up figure wearing a cap. He
wondered what sort of man could bring him-
self to fire into a crowded school. How much
had he been paid? And that made him think
again about the car wash. What sort of minds
would have thought up something like that?
What other tricks might they have up their
sleeve?

And suddenly he was on Wandsworth

Bridge. Only a few weeks ago he had rowed
underneath it, and he had wondered then

239/667

how it could possibly have been built. Most
of the Thames bridges were very elegant,
built as if to ornament the river. This one
was just a slab of reinforced concrete—func-
tional and ugly. It was also very long, with
four lanes of traffic, and Alex had to pedal
hard to keep up, afraid of being seen but
more afraid of losing the VW altogether. He
glimpsed the dark gray water beneath him,
stretching into the distance with nothing
memorable on either side. The driver came
to a roundabout and accelerated onto it
without looking left or right. Alex did the
same and was rewarded with the deafening
blast of a horn and a fistful of hot, dusty air
as a huge truck thundered past, inches away.
He wobbled slightly as he fought for balance,
aware that his legs were getting tired. It
would be just as well if the car did speed off
soon. Any farther and he might get himself
killed.

240/667

But instead it seemed that the VW had

reached its destination. It turned off down a
narrow drive that snaked back toward the
river, and as Alex slowed down, he saw it
draw into a parking space and stop. A sign
read Wandsworth Park, but it wasn’t a park
so much as an industrial estate, one of those
little pieces of London that had somehow
been overlooked. There were a couple of of-
fice buildings sitting side by side, facing the
river. They were modern and unremarkable,
two stories high with white walls and square
windows. One of them advertised a mobile
phone company. The other could have been
almost anything. A garage and auto-repair
service stood opposite them, close to the wa-
ter’s edge, but it seemed to have closed
down.

The whole area was covered in rubble,

with abandoned tires, oil drums, and empty
skips. Alex had stopped at the top of the
drive, concealing himself behind a broken

241/667

wire fence. He wondered how a place like
this could have just been left to decay. Put a
few houses on it, with views over the river,
and surely it would be worth millions. But
then again, this wasn’t somewhere people
would necessarily want to live. The noise of
the traffic on Wandsworth Bridge was end-
less and the air smelled of diesel. Maybe a
few run-down businesses was all it was good
for.

The man got out of his car, then reached
into the back and drew out the bag that he
had been carrying on the roof. It was the bag
that contained his weapon. Peering out over
the rubbish, Alex got a better view of him. He
was short, in his thirties, dressed in an anor-
ak and jeans, with a cap hiding his hair. He
was clean shaven and white. His movements
were completely leisurely, as if he were on
his way home after a round of golf. He closed
the car door, locked it with a remote on his
key ring, and began to stroll down toward

242/667

the river. Alex chose his moment, then free-
wheeled down the slope and came to a skid-
ding halt behind one of the skips.

What now? From this new angle he could
see a concrete jetty sticking out into the fast-
flowing water of the Thames. The jetty was
T-shaped and long enough to accommodate
a dozen cars. But that wasn’t what was
parked there. A helicopter was waiting, a
two-seater Robinson R22, one of the most
popular flying machines in the world. Alex
recognized the long tail, slanting upward,
and the tiny bubble of a cabin resting on its
grasshopper legs. It was perched at the far
end, painted gray like the water behind it.
Someone must have landed it here for the
man in the VW. But if so, it couldn’t be tak-
ing him very far. As far as Alex could recall,
the Robinson had a range of less than 250
miles. Still, that would be enough to get it to
the middle of France.

243/667

There was a narrow, three-story building
at the other end of the jetty, right next to the
river. It could have been a clubhouse for ca-
noeists or perhaps some sort of outpost for
the river police. It was wooden, painted
white—but the paint was flaking and some of
the windows were cracked. Alex assumed it
was empty, but then the door opened and a
second man came out, walking across the
jetty, heading toward the helicopter.

The two men were about to meet. Alex

knew he had to get closer, to hear what they
said. He was still some distance away,
crouching beside the skip, but fortunately
the men were looking out over the river with
their backs to him. Abandoning his bike, he
ran down toward them, keeping low behind a
slight rise in the ground. He was afraid the
sound of his feet on the gravel would give
him away, but the drone of the traffic was
loud enough to cover it. He threw himself
facedown just as the two men met.

244/667
“So how did it go?” the man from the office

asked.

“It was fine. Mission accomplished,” the

sniper replied.

He was lying. Surely he must have known
that he had missed his target. But maybe it
wasn’t in his interest to admit that he had
failed. Not if he was hoping to be paid.

“Let’s go then,” the first man said.
They set off together, heading for the heli-

copter. So was that it? Was he just going to
sit there and let them fly off? Alex memor-
ized the registration number—A5455H—on
the helicopter’s tail. If he telephoned it
through to the police, maybe they could in-
tercept the Robinson before it could land.
But it wasn’t enough. Alex could still feel the
anger. These people had broken in on his
life. They had tried to kill him and they had
hurt his best friend. And calling the police
would probably do no good at all. He re-
membered what had happened to the car.

245/667

The pilot might press a button and change
the registration of the helicopter. Maybe it
would turn bright pink in midair. Suddenly
Alex was determined. He wasn’t going to let
them get away.

He was up and running before he knew

what he was going to do. The men had
reached the helicopter and were climbing in.
They were too busy concentrating on their
own movements to notice him. Alex sprinted
diagonally across the yard and onto the other
side of the jetty. Out of the corner of his eye
he saw the sniper buckling himself into the
backseat, his view obscured by the pilot, who
was leaning across him. Alex spun to the
right, heading away from them, and a mo-
ment later he had reached the three-story
building that he had noticed, the one from
which the pilot had emerged.

He couldn’t take the two men on by him-

self. He was empty-handed. But there was al-
ways a chance he might find something

246/667

inside—a high-powered hose, maybe, or any-
thing he could use as a weapon. At the very
worst there might be a telephone. His own
mobile was still at school.

His hopes were dashed even as he burst in

through the front door. He saw that he was
in an office complex that might once have
belonged to the river authority. The walls
were painted pale green and there were a few
old maps of the Thames and tidal charts
pinned to a cork notice board on a wall. But
it was empty, abandoned. The whole place
smelled of damp and decay. He tried the
door of an office. It wouldn’t budge.

Outside, he heard the whine of the four-

cylinder air-cooled engine and knew that the
Robinson had started up. It would take about
a minute for the rotors to achieve maximum
speed and then it would be gone, disappear-
ing into the sky and forever out of his reach.
Alex looked around him. There was nothing

247/667

here, just locked doors and a tatty staircase
with peeling Formica, leading up.

The roof. Alex decided there was only one
thing he could do, one way he could get back
at the sniper. The man in the anorak was
pretending that he’d succeeded, that he’d hit
his target. Well, Alex would show him other-
wise. He would stand on the roof in full view
and at least the people who’d hired him
would know that he’d failed. Perhaps there
would be some sort of punishment for lying
to them. Certainly he wouldn’t get paid.

He took the steps two at a time. On the

third floor he came across a fire extinguisher
strapped to the wall, and he grabbed it and
wrenched it free. He didn’t really know what
he was doing. In his mind’s eye he saw him-
self spraying the cockpit as the helicopter
flew past, blinding the pilot. But that was ri-
diculous. The wind would whip the foam
away before it got anywhere near. Could he
perhaps hurl the extinguisher at the rotors?

248/667

It was certainly heavy enough to do serious
damage. But it was also too heavy to
throw—and anyway, the helicopter would be
too far away.

But it was all he had, and he was still car-
rying it as he clambered up the last staircase
and crashed through a pair of emergency exit
doors onto the roof. It took him just a few
seconds to take in his surroundings. The
river was right in front of him. Wandsworth
Bridge stretched out to the left. The Robin-
son R22 was balancing on its legs, already
weightless, about to lift off the ground. The
pilot, wearing sunglasses now, with a pair of
headphones over his ears, was coaxing the
joystick. The sniper was in the seat behind
him. Alex was above them both, but—as he
had thought—he was too far away. However,
that might be about to change. In a few
seconds’ time the two men would fly right
past him. They couldn’t go the other way be-
cause of the bridge.

249/667

The helicopter lurched off the ground

without any seeming effort. It was moving
diagonally, heading toward Alex but at the
same time away from him, over the water. By
the time it drew level, it would be at least fif-
teen yards away. He couldn’t throw the fire
extinguisher that far. If he set off the foam,
he would just end up soaking himself.

“If you want to stay in the top group,

Spencer, try not to behave like a fifth-
grader.”

Somehow, incredibly, Alex remembered

Mike Spencer in the classroom, the moment
after he had noticed the sniper. He had been
firing a piece of eraser with a bendy ruler,
aiming at another boy. Could it possibly
work? Yes! Why not? The TV antenna was
right on the edge of the roof, and the fact
that it was swaying meant that it must surely
bend. The antenna had four metal rods that
came together in the shape of a V. Alex ran
over to it. He hoisted the fire extinguisher up

250/667

so that it rested inside the V and then, using
both hands, pulled it back. The whole thing
bent toward him. Alex could feel the metal
straining. If he let go now, he would launch
the extinguisher halfway across the river.
That was one advantage of being fifteen. He
hadn’t been this strong a year ago.

Suddenly the helicopter was level with

him, filling his vision. He could feel the wind
from the rotors beating at him, threatening
to blow him off the roof, and the engine
howled in his ears. His hair whipped around
his eyes, half blinding him. But he had a
clear view of the sniper in the back window.
The man turned and saw him. His eyes
widened in shock. He shouted something.
The pilot seemed to have frozen too. The
helicopter wasn’t moving. It was just
dangling there, a perfect target, right in front
of him.

Alex let go of the fire extinguisher. The TV
antenna whipped forward, propelling it like a

251/667

medieval catapult. The red metal cylinder hit
the cabin, an oversized bullet that smashed
into the glass, sending cracks in every direc-
tion. It wouldn’t have been enough to bring
the helicopter down, but the pilot jerked
back instinctively, losing control. Alex threw
himself to the ground as the tail of the heli-
copter swung around, scything through the
air, inches above where his head had just
been. He felt another blast of air tearing at
his shirt and jacket, trying to drag them off
his shoulders. For a brief second he glimpsed
the terrified face of the sniper, upside down .
. . or at least that was how it seemed to him.
The pilot was fighting for control and might
have regained it, but then the tail rotor
clipped the edge of the building and there
was a dreadful grinding and a snapping
sound as part of the blade broke off. Lying
flat on the roof, Alex covered his head with
his hands, afraid that he was about to be torn

252/667

to pieces. A slice of broken metal shot past
him and shuddered into the brickwork.

And then the helicopter was gone, yanked

into the air as if it were a fish on the end of
an invisible line. It was completely direction-
less, the whole thing spinning around and
around. Alex dragged himself to his knees,
gazing at his handiwork with a sense of dis-
belief. The helicopter was like a mad thing.
He wondered what sort of nightmare the pi-
lot and his passenger must be experiencing
inside. It was still moving fast. Already it was
a quarter of a mile away, mercifully flying
upriver, away from the bridge. Alex stood up.
The helicopter tried to right itself, but it
wasn’t going anywhere. It stopped, then
crashed down into the river. There was a
great explosion of white water and then
nothing. Alex couldn’t see any more.

Were the two men dead? Alex didn’t know
and, in truth, he didn’t really care. He’d giv-
en them a lesson they’d richly deserved.

253/667

After all, they had just tried to kill him. They
had opened fire on a classroom full of kids
and they hadn’t cared what might result.
Alex wondered if Tom Harris was all right.
He was sure the injury hadn’t been too seri-
ous, but he knew all too well the shock of be-
ing wounded by gunfire. He thought of
phoning him, then remembered that he had
left his mobile in his locker at school.

A couple of people had run out of the office
and were making their way across the yard to
the jetty. Alex had scratched and bruised his
arms and knees when he threw himself
down. His school pants were torn. More
needle-work for Jack!

He limped back in through the emergency

exit, climbed down the stairs, and went in
search of his bike.

9

SAFETY MEASURES

SITTING IN THE BACKSEAT of his
chauffeur-driven Jaguar XJ6, Alan Blunt was
in a bad mood. He hadn’t spoken a word in
the thirty minutes it had taken them to drive
from Liverpool Street, gazing out the window
with narrow, expressionless eyes as if the en-
tire city had somehow offended him. Mrs.
Jones was next to him and she knew exactly
what he was thinking. The two of them were
breaking every rule in the book. They were
on their way to see Alex Rider when really he
should have been summoned to see them.

They already knew what had happened at

Brookland—but then, of course, the whole
country did. A gun attack on a school in west

255/667

London was the sort of story that would
travel instantly all over the world—and the
intelligence services had been forced to move
quickly to rein it in. This was Alex Rider’s
school. They had made the connection in-
stantly and had done everything they could
to turn media attention away. There was no
sniper, they said, and certainly no sniper
rifle. It was just some local vandal with an air
gun who had managed to break into a build-
ing site and had fired a couple of shots at the
windows. One boy had been slightly injured
but nobody had been killed.

Even so, the shooting had been the main
story on all the six o’clock news shows and
would be on the front pages the next day.
Tom Harris had been filmed in his hospital
bed with one arm in a sling, surrounded by
flowers and chocolates and looking quite
happy to be at the center of so much atten-
tion. The police had mounted roadblocks all
over Fulham and Chelsea. The home

256/667
secretary had promised she would be making
a statement to the House. All the children at
Brookland were being offered counseling and
the school would remain closed until the end
of the week.

As a result of the media frenzy, two other

stories were given less attention than they
might otherwise have received. In a com-
pletely unrelated incident, a helicopter had
crashed into the River Thames near
Wandsworth Bridge. The police were still
looking for the pilot and passenger. Neither
had yet been named. And in Greece, one of
the world’s richest men, Ariston Xenopolos,
had died after a long fight against cancer. He
had left behind a fortune of more than thirty-
five billion dollars.

Alan Blunt had been in one of his regular
meetings with the Joint Chiefs of Staff when
the news came in. He had left at once, join-
ing Mrs. Jones for an emergency briefing. It
was obvious to both of them that Alex had

257/667

been the target. The sniper had missed—that
much was known. But Alex seemed to have
disappeared. He had last been seen cycling
away from the school. When Blunt had heard
about the helicopter crash just one hour
later, he had assumed at once that there
must be a connection. That would have been
typical of Alex. He was a boy of extraordinary
resource.

Alex finally got home in the middle of the af-
ternoon. Jack was completely shocked by
what had happened, and when Mrs. Jones
called her a short while later, she was in no
mood for an argument.

“We need to talk to Alex,” Mrs. Jones said.

“We’ll send a car around to bring him to
Liverpool Street.”

“I’m sorry, Mrs. Jones.” There was ice in
Jack’s voice. “Alex isn’t going anywhere. I
can understand that you want to debrief him.

258/667

But if you want to see him, you’re going to
have to come here.”

“That’s out of the question.”
“Fine. Then you can forget about talking to

him.” Before Mrs. Jones could interrupt,
Jack continued. “Every time Alex has been
into that building of yours, it’s been nothing
but trouble. The last time was November. He
came to see you because he had a journalist
chasing after him—and what happened? You
sent him to spy on Desmond McCain and he
ended up in Kenya being almost fed to the
crocodiles. Well, that’s all over now. He
doesn’t work for you anymore. If you want to
talk to him about what happened this morn-
ing, you can come over here, but don’t make
it too late. He’s had a tough day and I want
him in bed before ten.”

It was unheard of for the director of Spe-

cial Operations and his deputy to be
summoned in this way. Secret conversations
need to take place in a secure environment

259/667

and Blunt’s office was exactly that. Nobody
could enter without being scanned . . . for
weapons or for recording devices. Any form
of eavesdropping was out of the question.
The windows had even been treated to de-
flect radio or microwave beams. It was im-
possible to find out who had been there and
for what reason. Visiting Alex at his home in
Chelsea would change all that. It was a com-
pletely unacceptable risk.

And yet, early that evening, the car drew
up outside the elegant white-fronted house
that had once belonged to Ian Rider, and
Blunt and Mrs. Jones stepped out. Jack had
refused to budge from her position, and in
the end they’d had to accept that this was the
only way. But then, of course, Alex was no
ordinary agent. Recruiting him in the first
place had broken all the rules. So perhaps
they should have been prepared to make an
exception.

260/667

Alex was waiting for them in the living
room. Blunt could see at once that he was
very different from the fourteen-year-old he
had so often employed. It wasn’t just that he
was bigger, that he had filled out more. He
was more confident too. Looking at him,
Blunt was suddenly reminded of Alex’s fath-
er. The resemblance was really quite
remarkable.

Jack offered coffee, which was politely de-

clined. She had already given Mrs. Jones a
full description of what had happened after
Alex left the school and the deputy director
didn’t waste any time.

“We’ve had divers and police down at the
river,” she began. “It seems likely that both
the pilot and his passenger managed to es-
cape from the helicopter. Certainly no bodies
have been washed up.”

“You’d think someone would have seen
two dripping wet men climbing out of the
water,” Jack growled.

261/667

“We’re still making inquiries. We’re still
looking.” Mrs. Jones glanced at Alan Blunt,
sitting opposite her. “It does seem strange
that they managed to vanish into thin air.
This was broad daylight, in the middle of
London. They must have been injured. And
yet as far as we can tell, no one’s had any
sight of them.”

“Did you see the sniper, Alex?” Blunt

asked.

“Not really.” Alex had changed into jeans
and a T-shirt. He was barefoot, as if to stress
that this was his home and he would dress
how he liked. It felt strange having Blunt in
the room, as if two worlds that should have
been kept apart had somehow collided. “He
was too far away and he had his back to me.
But I got the numbers of the car and the
helicopter.”

“They were both fake,” Mrs. Jones said.
“We’ve got the car—we picked it up from
Wandsworth Park—and we’re running tests

262/667

for fingerprints and DNA. We’ve also
salvaged the wreckage of the helicopter. But
I have my doubts that either of them will
lead us anywhere.”

“These were professional people,” Blunt

agreed. “That trick with the car wash, for ex-
ample. That showed a certain style—”

“Whose style?” Jack asked.
“We don’t know. We’ve spoken to the own-
er of the garage. He says he was paid to close
the car wash for a couple of days and he
doesn’t know anything else. We think he’s
telling the truth. But the main questions we
have to ask ourselves are—who would want
to kill Alex, and why now? And more to the
point, how do we stop them from trying
again?”

Alex examined the head of MI6, who was

sitting on the edge of the sofa with a very
straight back, as if he were determined not to
make himself comfortable. As usual, Blunt
was completely businesslike, dressed in a

263/667

slate gray suit with steel-rimmed spectacles
and highly polished black leather shoes. Des-
pite what he had said, he had somehow made
it clear that it didn’t really matter to him if
Alex lived or died. This whole thing was just
a nuisance, something else to be dealt with in
a busy day.

“They think I’m dead,” Alex said. “The

sniper told the pilot. He said ‘mission accom-
plished.’ I heard him.”

“That may not necessarily be the case,”
Mrs. Jones said—and once again she half
glanced at Blunt as if she wasn’t sure she
should continue. “First of all, we have to as-
sume that the sniper was aiming at you. This
will have been a very risky and very expens-
ive operation, so whoever was behind it must
have a very serious reason to wish you harm.
It’s clear from what you say that the sniper
lied to his employers, but even so, they prob-
ably guessed you’re alive. And when the heli-
copter crashed five minutes later, they’d

264/667

have known it for sure. Whichever way you
look at it, Alex, you’re probably still in
danger, and I’m afraid it’s going to be out of
the question, your going back to school, until
we’ve sorted this out.”

“How long will that be?” Alex asked with a

sense of despair. Some people might have
thought him mad, wanting to go back to
school. But he’d been enjoying the term.
Everything had been going well for him. He
wanted to be with his friends.

“It’s impossible to say. We have no idea

who the enemy is or even why they’ve chosen
this moment to attack you. Right now we
have no clues. We’re as much in the dark as
you.”

“So how are you going to keep Alex safe?”
Jack demanded. “How are you going to stop
them from trying again?”

Blunt and Mrs. Jones exchanged a look,

and at that moment Alex knew they had
already worked this out, that they had known

265/667

what they were going to say before they had
walked through the door. The same thing
had happened after he had been attacked
while he was surfing with Sabina off the
Cornish coast. They had used the situation
then. They would do the same now.

“I think Alex has to leave the country,”

Blunt said.

“No way!” Jack exclaimed.
“Please, Miss Starbright. Allow me to fin-

ish. He can’t go back to Brookland and he
can’t stay here. As Mrs. Jones just said, it’s
too dangerous.”

“You could give him twenty-four-hour

protection.”

“We’ll have people watching the house to-

night—but in the long term, twenty-four-
hour protection doesn’t exist. If an enemy is
determined enough, he’ll break through the
tightest barrier no matter how carefully it’s
been constructed. No. While we investigate

266/667

this business, Alex would be much safer with
a new identity somewhere far away.”

“Do you have somewhere in mind?”
“As a matter of fact, I do.” Blunt coughed

delicately, his hand forming a comma in
front of his mouth. “I want him to go to
Egypt,” he said.

“Egypt?”
“To Cairo, to be precise. It just so happens

that I needed to send one of my people out
there anyway—”

“Alex isn’t one of your people!” Jack cut in.
Blunt ignored her. He turned directly to
Alex. “I wasn’t going to involve you, Alex.
You’ve made your feelings very clear and of
course I’ve tried to respect that. But circum-
stances have changed. You need our help.
We need yours. I have a job that is ideally
suited to you. At the same time, it’ll take you
far away and keep you safe.”

“What job?” Alex asked. The two words fell

heavily from his lips.

267/667

“Alex, no!” Jack whispered.
Alex avoided her eye. “What job?” he

asked a second time.

“It’s just a question of being in the right

place and keeping your eyes open for us. All
we want you to do is report back and we’ll do
the rest.” Blunt paused, waiting for any argu-
ment, and when none came, he went on.
“The place is a school . . . a very good school,
as it happens, so you won’t even need to miss
any of your studies. It’s called the Cairo In-
ternational College of Arts and Education,
but the students just refer to it as CC—or
Cairo College. It’s for boys and girls aged
thirteen to eighteen, although there’s a juni-
or school too. Many of the parents there are
working in the Middle East. Some of them
are high profile. Some of them are very rich.

“We have received information that sug-
gests some sort of hostile activity could take
place there sometime soon. Unfortunately,
we don’t know when and we have no idea

268/667

what exactly it might entail. A kidnapping
might be a possibility. Some of these parents
could afford millions of dollars as a ransom,
if it were demanded.”

“Have you warned the school?” Jack

asked.

“We’re not sure that a warning would do

any good,” Blunt replied. “Not until we know
more. However, we do have one line of in-
vestigation. Last week, the school appointed
a new head of security, a man by the name of
Erik Gunter. It seems very unlikely that he
would be involved in anything illegal. As a
matter of fact, he’s a war hero. He was decor-
ated by the queen. But at the same time, we
can’t believe that his arrival is just a
coincidence.”

“What happened to the last head of secur-

ity?” Alex asked.

Blunt swallowed. “He had an accident. All
we’re asking you to do, Alex, is to keep an eye
on this man and report anything suspicious

269/667

back to us. There’s no need for you to get in-
volved. At the first sign of any trouble, we’ll
step in.”

“Wait a minute!” Jack exclaimed. “I can’t
believe you people! We asked you to come
here because someone just took a shot at
Alex. His best friend was almost killed! But
all you want is to use him again.”

“We want to protect him,” Mrs. Jones in-

sisted. “Honestly, Jack. I was against this
myself at first, but it does seem to be the best
solution. Nobody would think of looking for
him in Cairo. We’ll give him a false name.
And the best thing about an international
school is that the students come and go. The
parents are always on the move. Nobody will
ask any questions when a new face shows up.
Meanwhile, we’ll investigate the car, the heli-
copter, everything. We’ll let you know as
soon as it’s safe for Alex to come home. It
shouldn’t be more than a few weeks.”

270/667

She fell silent. Blunt was looking straight
at Alex, waiting for him to reply. Jack shook
her head, clearly unhappy. Alex realized it
was all up to him. At the same time he
wondered if he really had any choice. Only
that morning, he had been celebrating the
fact that his life had returned to normal. Out
of the tunnel—that was what he had thought.
How could he have been so naïve? The tun-
nel had reached out to draw him back in and
once again he was lost in its darkness.

“I don’t mind going,” he said. “Mr. Blunt is
right. If there’s someone after me, I can’t stay
here. I can’t risk anyone else getting hurt be-
cause of me.”

“I could take you to America. We could go

anywhere in the world!”

“I need to be at school somewhere, Jack. I

don’t want to get any further behind.”

“Then we’re agreed?” Blunt said.
“Actually, I have a few questions,” Jack cut

in. “Where is Alex going to live in Cairo?

271/667

Who’s going to look after him? Is this inter-
national college a boarding school?”

“No.” Mrs. Jones shook her head. “We’ll

have to find him an apartment.”

“Then make sure it has two bedrooms, be-
cause I’m going too!” Alex turned to Jack in
surprise. He could tell from the tone of her
voice that there were going to be no argu-
ments. “I’m fed up sitting at home while you
put Alex in harm’s way,” Jack went on. “I
know you’ve said he won’t be in any
danger—but that’s what you said last time,
and the time before. Well, if Alex agrees to
go, that’s his decision. But I’m not going to
let him go alone. That’s mine. Both of us or
not at all. Your call, Mrs. Jones.”

Mrs. Jones thought for a moment, then
nodded. “I think it’s a good idea,” she said.
“Alex?”

Alex was still gazing at Jack. “Are you

really sure?” he asked.

272/667

“I’ve never been more certain about

anything.”

“That’s great.” Alex smiled. “We can see

the pyramids together. And the Nile. And it’ll
be fun to have you with me.”

“You can leave all the arrangements to us,”

Blunt said. “I’ll alert our Cairo office that
you’re on your way. They’ll give you
everything you need.”

“Then it seems we’re all agreed,” Jack said.
She got up and led Alan Blunt and Mrs.

Jones to the door. Their car was waiting for
them, parked outside. Meanwhile, Alex sat
on his own, his head in a whirl. Cairo! Part of
him was excited. He couldn’t help himself. It
was an amazing city, somewhere he had nev-
er been before. And yet at the same time, he
felt a great weight on his shoulders. It was all
happening again.

Jack came back in. “They’ve gone,” she

said.

273/667

“Thanks, Jack.” Alex got up. “Thanks for

saying you’d come with me.”

“I wasn’t going to let it happen any other
way.” Just for a moment, Jack remembered
that she had been planning to tell Alex her
plans this very evening. Had she really been
thinking of abandoning him, of moving on?
Well, her parents and Washington would
have to wait. “I guess they’ll have to give me
a new ID too,” she said. “I wonder what I’ll
look like with a fake mustache.” She sighed.
“Are you going to do your homework?”

“I don’t think there’s any point.”
“Then why don’t I make us some supper?

And you see what’s on TV . . .”

Alan Blunt was in a better mood as they
headed back toward Liverpool Street. Mrs.

274/667

Jones had noticed the difference. “So you got
what you wanted,” she said.

“Yes.” Blunt avoided her eye. “It’s funny

how things work out sometimes.”

“I think you forgot to mention that Scorpia

might be involved.”

“I didn’t forget. I preferred not to alarm

him.”

“He might have decided not to go.”
“I would have said, all in all, that it’s better

for him to keep an open mind.”

They drove on in silence.
“I want him to have backup in Cairo,” Mrs.

Jones announced suddenly.

“Who do you have in mind?” Blunt knew

that there was a time when his deputy would
never have spoken to him so directly. But he
would soon be gone. Power was already
transferring itself to her. “We could send
Crawley, perhaps. Or Gerrard . . .”

“I was thinking of Smithers.”
“An interesting choice.”

“Alex trusts him. And he may come in use-
ful, particularly if Scorpia does show up. Do
you have any objection?”

“Of course not, Mrs. Jones. Whatever you

275/667

think best.”

The strange thing was that Blunt had been
right all along. He never should have left
Liverpool Street and he certainly shouldn’t
have visited Alex at home.

He and Mrs. Jones had been filmed getting

out of the car from the window of the house
opposite. The owners of the house were on
vacation in Thailand, and although they
should have returned by now, they had both
fallen ill with food poisoning and were being
treated in a hospital in Bangkok. Scorpia had
arranged this, just as they had arranged for
one of their teams to break into the house
and set up their cameras on the second floor.

Alex’s home had also been bugged. Two

men dressed as telephone engineers had

276/667

slipped in while Jack was out at the shops
and placed recording devices in the kitchen,
the living room, both bedrooms, and even
dotted around the garden. The entire conver-
sation with Blunt and Mrs. Jones had been
recorded.

“I want him to go to Egypt . . . I have a job

that is ideally suited to you . . .”

“We’ll give him a false name . . .”
“I’ll alert our Cairo office that you’re on
your way. They’ll give you everything you
need.”

It had all been recorded, on film and on

tape, proof that MI6 had once again em-
ployed Alex Rider and sent him to the
Middle East. It would be put into the Horse-
man file, and over the next few days, that file
would start to grow. Ariston might be dead,
but his work would continue. Scorpia’s oper-
ation had begun.

10

WELCOME TO CAIRO

THE MAN FROM THE EMBASSY had intro-
duced himself as Blakeway, but Alex
wondered if that was his real name. It some-
how suited him too well. He was thin, eld-
erly, hollowed out by the sun, and very Eng-
lish—wearing a crumpled linen jacket, a
striped tie, and a Panama hat. He had been
waiting for Alex and Jack at Cairo Airport,
standing next to the metal tunnel that led
from the plane.

“Miss Starbright? Alex? Very good to meet

you. I’ve got a car waiting for you. Do come
this way.”

They set off at a leisurely pace. Blakeway

didn’t look like the sort of man who ever

278/667

hurried. But it was good having him with
them. They were waved through passport
control. They didn’t have to join the long
lines or buy twenty-dollar entry visas from
the banking kiosks. Blakeway stood with
them until their luggage arrived on the ca-
rousel, then carried Jack’s cases for her,
leading them through the crowds of taxi
drivers and tour operators clamoring on the
other side of the arrivals gate.

The heat hit Alex full in the face. As they

passed through the sliding doors, leaving the
terminal behind them, it was almost like
stepping into a furnace. Within seconds his
clothes were sticking to him and he felt his
case dragging him down. Meanwhile, Blake-
way was looking around the concourse.

“Where’s Ahmed? I told him I’d be only a

few minutes. Ah! There he is!”

He waved at an official-looking black

sedan that drew up in front of him, and a
small, round-faced man in a white shirt and

279/667

dark pants leapt out and began to busy him-
self with the luggage.

“That’s better. You two can hop in the

back. The car’s got air-conditioning, thank
goodness. It shouldn’t take us too long to get
across Cairo—apart from the blasted traffic.”
A minute later they were on their way. The

car was cool inside and the seats were soft
and comfortable, but Alex couldn’t relax. He
was worn out from the long journey and al-
though he desperately wanted to fall asleep,
he knew it wasn’t going to happen. London
didn’t just seem a six-hour flight away. It was
another world, and part of him wondered
when he would see it again. What a fool he
had been to think that MI6 would ever leave
him alone. Perhaps it had been the same for
his uncle, Ian Rider—and for his parents.
They had all discovered the same thing. In
the end, there was no way out.

Sitting next to him, with her head resting
against the window, Jack Starbright seemed

280/667

to know exactly what he was thinking. She
was wearing large sunglasses that covered
most of her face, along with a floppy white
hat, but he could tell that she was concerned
about him. She suddenly reached across and
put a hand on his arm.

“We don’t have to stay,” she said quietly,

so that Blakeway wouldn’t hear.

“I know.”
“I noticed a flight to New York leaving in

three hours. We could be on it.”

“We’re here now, Jack. We might as well

see what it’s like.”

Was it even true? Alex wondered what
would happen if he asked the car to turn
around, if he tried to get back on a plane.
Would MI6 let him leave Cairo? Alan Blunt
wanted him here and that was where he was.
There would be no departure until the job
had been done.

“All right in the back?” Blakeway asked.

He might have overheard them talking after

281/667

all. “We’ve got some water here if you need
it. Just shout . . .”

He had said the traffic would be bad and

he hadn’t been exaggerating. It was hor-
rendous. They had joined a six-lane motor-
way, but there still wasn’t enough room for
the thousands of cars jammed together, the
drivers beeping at each other furiously as if it
would make any difference at all. Alex stared
out the window. It seemed to him that they
had driven into a nightmare of steel and con-
crete, of sand and dust. Old-fashioned office
blocks stood next to crumbling houses. Here
and there, slender towers rose over the
domes of mosques, but they were hemmed in
by radio masts, electricity pylons, and
cranes, tons and tons of ironwork fighting
for control of the sky. Alex’s first impression
was that Cairo was a very ugly city. It cer-
tainly wasn’t somewhere he would have
chosen to live.

282/667
Somehow they fought their way through to
the other side. The traffic thinned out a little
and they found themselves in a suburb,
quieter and less densely populated than the
city center but still less than welcoming.
Everything seemed half finished. They were
driving down a street with palm trees and
expensive Arabic-style villas on one side, but
piles of rubble and broken-down fences on
the other. For the first time, Alex saw the
desert. It was there, in the mid-distance, an
endless wave of drab yellow sand. It was as if
Cairo didn’t dare go any farther. It just
stopped. And next to it there was nothing.
“Not much farther,” Blakeway said. He

sounded remarkably cheerful. Alex
wondered how long he had been here. He
turned to the driver and said something in
Arabic. The two of them laughed.

And then they drove into a bright, modern

complex, the automatic gates opening and
closing behind them. It was called Golden

283/667

Palm Heights, a private community of about
fifty bleached-out houses and apartments
surrounding well-kept lawns with sprinklers
twisting in the sunshine and a good-sized
swimming pool. It reminded Alex of a vaca-
tion village the sort of place you might rent
for a week in the sun. The sedan drew in be-
side a neat block of apartments with terraces
overlooking the pool.

“This is it! Let’s go in. Ahmed can bring up

the luggage.”

They followed Blakeway up a staircase to a

two-bedroom apartment on the first floor.
The door was open and he showed them in to
a light, modern space with marble floors, air-
conditioning, and an open-plan living room
with sliding windows leading onto the bal-
cony. There was a large fridge-freezer, an
electric oven and microwave, and a fifty-five-
inch plasma-screen TV on one wall.
Everything was very clean. After the long

284/667
journey, Alex had to admit that he was pleas-
antly surprised.

“I’m going to leave you now,” Blakeway
announced. “I’m sure you want to get un-
packed and go for a swim. If you need any-
thing, this is my number here.” He took out a
business card and snapped it down. “You’re
only five minutes from Cairo College and I’m
sure someone will turn up to show you
around. Quite a lot of the students and some
of the teachers live here at Golden Palm
Heights. They’ll be here around four o’clock,
after school, and there’s usually a rush for
the pool. I expect it’ll be quite strange for
you, Alex, being the new boy and all that.”
He went over to the window and glanced

out, as if to make sure they were alone.
When he turned around, his voice was lower
and he sounded almost nervous. “I’m told
that one of your people will be coming here
on Sunday evening,” he went on. “He’ll give
you further instructions and see that you’re

285/667

properly equipped. But that gives you the
weekend to acclimate yourselves, see a bit of
Cairo. It’s not such a bad place once you get
to know it. Well, I’ll wish you good luck,
Alex. For what it’s worth, I’ve heard about
you, you know. A few whispers, anyway. It’s
very good to have met you.”

He called for Ahmed and the two of them
left. Jack watched the car disappear through
the gate. They were finally alone.

“A swim, something to eat, or a nap?” she

asked.

“All three,” Alex replied. “But let’s start

with the swim.”

Jack was keen to unpack, so Alex dragged

a pair of trunks out of a case, got changed,
and went down alone. He dived straight in
and did six lengths, pounding through the
cold water, leaving the heat and the grime
behind him. He was still there, splashing
around and enjoying himself, when the first
students from Cairo College arrived back at

286/667

Golden Palm Heights, threw off their back-
packs and clothes, and dived in with him. Al-
most at once he found himself surrounded
by two boys and a girl who were all about the
same age as him and who seemed delighted
to have a new face in the complex.

The two boys were Australian; Craig

Daniels and Simon Shaw. Craig was tall for
his age—in fact, he was huge. He needed to
shave but didn’t. Simon looked like a surfer,
from his tanned skin and long, fair hair right
down to the bead necklace and brightly
colored trunks he wore in the pool. The girl
was named Jodie, and although she had been
born in England, she had lived most of her
life abroad. Her parents were both teachers,
fortunately not at the CICAE. She had
freckles and straw-colored hair cut short,
and Alex liked her at once.

“Cairo College isn’t too bad,” she told him,

in answer to his questions. “It’s pretty

287/667

relaxed and the teachers are okay. I spent
two years in Singapore and that was
miserable.”

“How come you’re out here?” Craig asked.

Like Simon, his father worked in the oil in-
dustry. Quite a few of the families at the
school were supported by Shell or BP.

It was the moment Alex had been dread-

ing. It was hard enough making new friends,
and doing so on the basis of a lie made it ten
times worse. But he had no choice. MI6 had
given him a false name—Alex Tanner—and
had already rehearsed the story of his back-
ground with Jack. She would support him if
anyone asked her. “I don’t have parents,” he
explained. “My uncle works for an interna-
tional bank and they’ve recently started
working in the Middle East. He’s not here
right now. I have a sort of guardian who
looks after me. Everyone just decided it
would be easier for us to be here.”

288/667

Like all good lies, the story contained a lot

of truth. Ian Rider had pretended to be a
banker before he’d died. MI6 were certainly
active in the Middle East. And Jack was his
legal guardian. At any event, it seemed to
make sense to Alex’s three new friends.

“It’s okay,” Craig said. “Once you get used

to the heat and the noise . . .”

“And the hawkers . . .,” Simon added.
“And Miss Watson.” The three of them

groaned.

“Welcome to Cairo, Alex. You’re going to

love it here.”

And over the next few days, almost despite
himself, Alex began to relax. He would start
at the college on Monday. Until then, he and
Jack were tourists, on vacation together, and
they could put the rest of it out of their mind.

289/667

The first thing they did was to visit the fam-
ous pyramids at Giza, slipping in as the sun
was rising and wandering almost alone
around the extraordinary monuments built
to house the bodies of dead kings almost five
thousand years before. They took a felucca, a
traditional wooden sailing boat, along the
Nile. They explored Cairo together, strolling
through the crowded streets of the souk—the
local market—and haggling for things they
didn’t even want. They popped into mosques
and museums, staying just long enough to
say they had been. They visited the place
where Moses had supposedly been found in
the bulrushes and Jack got a picture taken of
the two of them, arm in arm, grinning like
idiots.

Craig and Simon had both been right. The

heat in the city was almost unbearable, at
least one hundred degrees without any
desert breeze, and the hawkers never left
them alone, trying to sell them everything

290/667

from spices to pornographic postcards. Cairo
had no center and seemed to have no way
out. It was as if half of humanity had just
piled in there and had decided to stay.

But they didn’t care. They were enjoying

themselves, closer than they’d been for a
long time. Alex felt as if he had gone back
five years, as if Ian Rider were still alive and
Jack were looking after him and every day in
its own way was fun. He was almost glad that
he’d been shot at. This wouldn’t have
happened any other way.

They didn’t hear from Blakeway again, but
returning home on Sunday evening, they no-
ticed a new car parked outside the apartment
and realized that the MI6 agent he had men-
tioned must have turned up. Sure enough,
someone called from the front door, and to
his surprise, Alex saw a plump, familiar man
waddling slowly toward them.

He had last seen Smithers in his office on
the eleventh floor of the Royal and General

291/667

Bank in London, just before he had broken
into the Greenfields research center at Salis-
bury. Alex had always had a soft spot for the
man who had provided him with so many
bizarre and useful weapons during his time
with MI6. Seeing him now, he wondered how
Smithers could possibly manage in this heat.
It wasn’t just the huge stomach, it was the
three chins, the round cheeks, the neck that
seemed to be melting slowly into the
shoulders. Smithers was bald with a small
mustache that reminded Alex of a comedian
in one of those old, silent, black-and-white
films. He was wearing a linen suit that bil-
lowed around him like a parachute. He was
mopping his head with an oversized silk
handkerchief, but as he drew up in front of
them, he stuffed it back into his pocket.
“As-salaam alaikum, Alex,” Smithers

chortled. “That’s Arabic for ‘good evening.’
And you must be Jack Starbright. How very
nice to meet you.”

“What are you doing out here, Mr. Smith-

292/667

ers?” Alex asked.

“Believe it or not, Mrs. Jones sent me to
look after you.” Smithers beamed. “Let’s go
and talk inside, shall we? I’m told you have a
first-floor apartment. I hope it’s not too
many steps!”

They made their way up and soon the

three of them were sitting around the living
room table. Alex had a glass of iced grenad-
ine—still his favorite drink. Smithers had a
beer.

“So you begin at the Cairo College tomor-

row, Alex,” he said. “My job is to help you
and also, as it were, to be the interface
between you and London.”

“What’s going on in London?” Jack asked.
“They still haven’t found the helicopter pi-
lot or his passenger,” Smithers said. “And no
bodies have turned up, so we’re assuming
they got away.”

“They tried to kill Alex. You must know

293/667

who they were.”

“I’m afraid not, Miss Starbright.” Smithers

lifted his beer. “Can I call you Jack? I feel I
know you rather well, even though we’ve
only just met. And I have to agree with you.
It’s all rather mysterious. I’m not sure how
the helicopter managed to land in the middle
of London in the first place. It would have
needed a flight plan, and for that it would
have had to have a proper license. But so far
all the trails have led nowhere.”

“Was it Scorpia?” Alex asked. He didn’t
know why he had said that. The name had
just dropped into his head.

“I don’t know, Alex, old chap. They haven’t

told me. The good thing is that nobody
knows you’re here in Cairo. At least you’re
safe.”

“You mean, he’s safe until someone tries to

blow up the school,” Jack growled. “Then
he’ll be right in the middle of it.”

294/667

“What exactly am I meant to do?” Alex

asked. His face brightened. “And what gad-
gets have you got for me, Mr. Smithers? I’m
sure you’ve got an exploding camel or
something.”

Smithers shook his head. For once, he was

completely serious. “This is a very unusual
situation,” he said. “And we have to be care-
ful. All we know is that the school is a target
and a lot of young lives may be at stake. Ima-
gine if the whole place were taken over by
armed criminals. Such a thing has happened
before, you know. Or suppose some of these
teenagers were taken prisoner . . .” He pulled
out a list of ten names and laid it flat on the
table. “For what it’s worth, these are the ten
wealthiest students at Cairo College.”

Alex glanced at the names. The third one
down was Simon Shaw. He was the blond-
haired boy he’d met on his first day. “I know
him,” he said. “He was in the swimming
pool.”

295/667

“His father is Richard Shaw. He owns
about half the gas stations in Australia.”
Smithers took the list and folded it away.
“Don’t be fooled by the fact that the son is
living in an apartment just like you,” he said.
“A lot of these young people don’t want
people to know how rich their families are.”
That was an interesting thought. Perhaps

Alex wouldn’t be the only person at Cairo
College with secrets to hide.

“We have to examine all the security sys-

tems in the school,” Smithers continued.
“Put simply, Alex, we need to be sure that it’s
safe. What about members of the staff? Are
there any teachers with drinking or gambling
problems? Now that I come to think of it, my
old history teacher suffered from both. But
we want to know about anything that could
open them up to blackmail.

“And then there’s this chap Erik Gunter.
Now, I’ve seen his file and I find it hard to
believe that he’s turned bad. He took six

296/667
bullets for his regiment while he was in Afgh-
anistan. He spent nine weeks in the hospital
recovering. He has no criminal record of any
sort. But at the same time, he is their new
head of security and it can’t just be a coincid-
ence that he’s turned up now. That’s where
you should concentrate your efforts. We
want to know everything he’s up to. Who he
meets, how much he spends . . . even what he
has for lunch.”

Smithers had brought a small attaché case

with him and he opened it. The first things
he took out were a pair of rather chunky
sunglasses and a bright red plastic water
bottle, the sort of thing sportsmen might use.

“These work together,” he explained.
“Everyone at Cairo College carries wa-
ter—and you can pour about a quarter of a
liter in the top part of this bottle. The equip-
ment is concealed in the bottom part. It’s
new technology, Alex, and highly classified.
What it does is it uses people’s mobile

297/667

phones against them. Point the bottle in
their direction and you’ll hear everything
they’re hearing. The speakers are inside the
handles of the dark glasses and go behind
your ears. But it’s better than that. You can
actually activate mobile phones at a distance
of up to fifty meters and turn them into bugs.
Two teachers having a conversation in the
yard? You’ll hear every word they say.”

He took out what looked like an ordinary
plastic light switch. “This is the same design
as all the light switches at Cairo College,” he
explained. “You can stick it on any
wall—there’s a resin on the back and nobody
will notice it’s there . . . one more switch
among so many. It doesn’t actually turn any-
thing on or off, of course, but it’s got a highly
sensitive listening device inside and you can
use it to hear through walls. Again, it’s con-
nected to the glasses.

“Finally, if you want to communicate with
me, use this.” He produced an old-fashioned

298/667

notepad and a ballpoint pen and handed
them to Alex. Both objects felt slightly too
heavy. “Anything you write or draw on this
notepad will appear instantly on my com-
puter screen,” Smithers said. “Scribble down
SOS and I’ll be on my way. I’ve taken a house
in the middle of the city, by the way, just off
Al-Azhar Street, around the corner from the
souk. I’ll give you the address or you can use
the sunglasses.”

“How do I do that?”
“There’s a miniaturized GPS built into the

left lens. You’ll find the switch on the top.”
Smithers shut the case. “I’m working on a
few other thoughts,” he said, “but that
should get you started.” He took out the
handkerchief and patted at his face. “Trouble
with this country is it’s damnably hot,” he
said.

“I’m going for a swim,” Alex said. “You can

come with me, if you like.”

299/667

“No, thank you, old chap. I never swim. I
once invented a miniature submarine, but it
was pretty hopeless. For a start, I couldn’t fit
into it. And floating doesn’t come naturally
to me. But you enjoy yourself!” He got up
and went over to the door. “Delighted to
meet you, Jack. And take care, Alex. I’ll show
myself out!”

Alex and Jack waited until he had gone.

Then Jack picked up the sunglasses and ex-
amined them. “So that was the famous Mr.
Smithers,” she said. “He was completely
unbelievable.”

“You mean . . . his gadgets?”
“I mean the size of him! But I guess it’s
good he’s on your side.” Jack handed Alex
the sunglasses and went into the kitchen. “I’ll
make some supper,” she said. “And then
you’d best be getting an early night. You’ve
got to be ready for your first day at school.”

11

THE NEW BOY

THE CAIRO INTERNATIONAL College of
Arts and Education was only a five-minute
walk from the apartment, just as Blakeway
had said. When Monday morning finally ar-
rived, Alex set off with the two Australian
boys, Craig and Simon, who had offered to
deliver him to the main reception. Jack
would have liked to have gone too but under-
stood that Alex would feel more comfortable
with kids his own age. But she still grabbed
hold of him before he went and gave him a
quick kiss good-bye.

“It reminds me of the first time you went

to Brookland,” she said.

301/667

And the strange thing was, Alex was aware
of the same nervousness that he’d felt when,
aged thirteen, he’d left for secondary school.
His new uniform—dark blue trousers and
light blue polo shirt—felt ridiculous and he
had to remind himself that everyone would
be wearing the same thing. He guessed it
didn’t matter how old you were. These feel-
ings never went away.

Cairo College even looked a bit like Brook-
land. It was halfway down a wide, tree-lined
avenue, a modern complex with a main gate
and buses turning in, cars already pulling up
outside, children of every age and size tum-
bling out, dragging backpacks and lunch-
boxes and peculiar class projects made out of
wobbling cardboard and paper. It occurred
to Alex that schools all over the world are
more or less alike. After all, a classroom is a
classroom, a football field is a football field . .
. and Cairo College had plenty of both. Even
the noise was the same: the medley of

302/667

shouting voices, the first bell, the stampede
of feet on concrete. Is there any other type of
building that identifies itself so quickly by
the sound it makes?

What made Cairo College different was the
burning sunlight, the brightly painted yellow
walls (surely no school in England was ever
painted yellow), the exotic plants and palm
trees, and the thin scattering of sand in the
main yard. The buildings had been designed
so that the passageways were light and airy,
opening onto different courtyards with
benches and tables grouped together under
wooden canopies so that everyone could
have their lunch outside. There was a junior
school, with about a hundred children aged
eight to thirteen. But they were all contained
in a single block, next to an Olympic-sized
swimming pool. The three hundred boys and
girls in the senior school had the rest of the
place to themselves.

303/667

Craig and Simon escorted Alex through

the main gate. They weren’t allowed to con-
tinue without presenting their passes, which
were electronically scanned by an Egyptian
guard. Alex noticed that the same was being
done for all the other students as they ar-
rived. He was held up while his own pass was
issued with a photograph that made him
look as if he had just been mugged. Finally,
the two boys left him at an office on the other
side, where he was greeted by the school sec-
retary, a smiling, motherly woman with a
thick Yorkshire accent who made him fill out
a lot of forms, gave him a copy of the school
regulations, and then took him into the room
next door. Here, he was surprised to find
himself shaking hands with the principal of
Cairo College, a man in his fifties who intro-
duced himself as Matthew Jordan—“but
everyone calls me Monty.” He was a New
Zealander, a shaggy, easygoing man who ob-
viously enjoyed his job.

304/667

“Alex, welcome to Cairo College. I hope

you’re going to enjoy yourself. I guess it’s all
going to be a bit strange at first, but we try to
take things easy here. We don’t like bullies
and we don’t like show-offs, but you don’t
look like either, so I’m sure you’ll fit in fine.
If you have any problems, my office is always
open. Every new kid who comes here gets a
mentor. Yours is waiting outside. Her name
is Gabriella and I’m sure the two of you will
get along. Good luck. I’ll see you around.”
Gabriella was sixteen and, it turned out,
the daughter of the Italian ambassador in
Cairo. She had been at the school for three
years and—she wasted no time telling
Alex—she was looking forward to getting out.
She already seemed to be bursting out of her
uniform. Her nails were painted bright red.
From the way she walked, it was as if the
whole place belonged to her. She took Alex to
morning assembly, class registration, and

305/667

then to his first lesson. After that, he didn’t
see her again.

Monday at Cairo College . . .
It began with four one-hour classes, fol-
lowed by lunch. The college taught exactly
the same subjects as an English school with
the single exception that there were no reli-
gious studies . . . Perhaps it was too sensitive
an area in an Islamic country. The lessons
were also more relaxed and the class sizes,
with only fifteen or sixteen students, were
small. Like the students, the teachers came
from all over the world, and maybe because
they were so far from home, they all felt a
need to mix in. Alex’s math teacher was from
America, his history teacher was South Afric-
an, and his English teacher was actually
Japanese. They weren’t quite on first-name
terms, but Alex thought that if he stayed at
the school long enough, they could easily be-
come so.

306/667

Lunch was served out in the courtyard, a

choice of salads, sandwiches, wraps, and piz-
zas. Again, because this was Egypt, there was
no ham or pork. Alex wondered where he
should sit, but he needn’t have worried.
Craig, Simon, and Jodie were waiting for him
and called him over to their table. They
seemed keen to introduce him to their tenth-
grade friends, and from the way they de-
scribed him, they could have met him
months ago rather than a few days before.

“Tanner? That’s a Scottish name.” The

speaker was a stocky ginger-haired boy
named Andrew Macdonald, who was of
course Scottish himself. There were quite a
few boys from Scotland at Cairo College,
connected by the oil industry. Alex had
already noticed that they were the one na-
tional group that preferred to stick together.

“I’m not Scottish,” Alex said.
“That’s your bad luck. So why are you

here?”

307/667

Once again Alex went through his story.

The fake name, the fake history. He still
hated having to do it. He could feel it separ-
ating him from the rest of them.

“So where are your parents?” someone

asked.

“They died a long time ago.”
“That’s tough . . .”
“I’ve gotten used to it.”
“How long do you reckon you’ll be here?”

Andrew asked.

“I don’t know. They haven’t really said.”
There were two more lessons in the after-
noon, then gym, then ECAs, which stood for
Extra Curriculum Activities and included
everything from drama to swimming and
trekking in the desert for an International
Award. The school secretary had told Alex to
put his name down for at least two activities,
and he had chosen drama and soccer—al-
though he couldn’t imagine kicking a ball
around in the intense heat. The last class was

308/667

French, which was hardly needed, as most of
the students at Cairo College spoke two or
three languages anyway. It was taught by
Joanna Watson, the teacher whose name had
been mentioned in the pool at Golden Palm
Heights. Alex supposed that every school had
to have a Miss Watson; permanently
scowling, short-tempered, unloved, and
proud of it. She was short and bullish and
had threatened him with his first detention
before she’d even introduced herself.

It was at the very end of the day that Alex

had his first encounter with Erik Gunter.

The head of security appeared as Alex was

leaving, letting himself out of his office on
the ground floor. The two of them were
suddenly face-to-face and eyed each other
warily.

“Good afternoon. You’re the new boy. Alex

Tanner? Isn’t that right?”

“Yes, sir.”

309/667
“My name is Erik Gunter.” Alex recognized
the Glasgow accent. “I’m also new here. I just
started this month.”

Gunter was younger than Alex had expec-

ted, not quite thirty. It was obvious that he
had been in the army. He was incredibly fit,
with the sort of overdeveloped muscles that
might have been made for tattoos—not that
Alex could actually see them beneath the
black suit he was wearing. He had dark hair,
but he had shaved it close to the skin, leaving
only a shadow. He had a high forehead and
glinting, sunken eyes. He wasn’t tall—in fact,
he and Alex were about the same height—but
Alex had no doubt that if it ever came to a
fight, Gunter would be faster, stronger, and
dirtier than him. He decided at once that it
would never happen. If Gunter really was in-
volved in some sort of conspiracy, MI6 could
deal with him. This was one man he would
leave well alone.

310/667

“Are you a teacher here?” Alex asked. He

felt a need to say something.

“No. I look after security. Do you feel se-

cure, Tanner?”

“Yes, sir.”
“Good. Well, keep out of trouble and you’ll

stay that way. I’ll see you around.”

Gunter made his way down to the main

door. Alex saw that he walked with difficulty,
that he even had difficulty opening the door.
He wasn’t slow, but his whole body was
somehow lopsided, as if the different parts
weren’t receiving the right signals from his
brain. Nothing about him quite worked and
Alex remembered that he had been shot sev-
eral times in Afghanistan. Was he really the
enemy? The man was a war hero—and in his
own way he had been friendly enough. Alex
already felt bad about spying on him.

As far as Alex was concerned, that should

have been the end of this first day at the
Cairo International College of Arts and

311/667

Education. He was looking forward to get-
ting back to the apartment and telling Jack
everything that had happened. But there was
still one last encounter waiting for him and it
was a very strange one.

He had managed to drift behind the other

students and was virtually alone as he
walked toward the main gates. The guards
were checking everyone’s IDs and the last of
the buses was just pulling out. The sun
hadn’t started to sink, but there was a pink
hue in the sky and a sense of calm in the air.
Alex pulled out his card so that it could be
scanned. And it was at that moment that he
got the impression that he was being
watched. Actually, it was stronger than that.
He was quite certain of it. It was like an elec-
tric shock, a shudder of something running
through him as he became aware of some-
body’s eyes boring into him.

Slowly he turned his head and for just a

moment he spotted a figure in a downstairs

312/667

window, looking at him from behind the
glass. It was Gunter’s office. Alex was sure of
it. But it couldn’t be Gunter, as Alex had just
seen him leave. It looked like a boy. Alex was
sure he was wearing a school uniform. He
glimpsed fair hair. The boy’s face was just a
blur. Alex tried to make it out, but almost at
once, the boy moved away and instantly dis-
appeared, like a mirage in the desert. Per-
haps he had never been there at all.

But in that brief second, the heat of the af-

ternoon was replaced by a shiver of
something that he didn’t quite recognize, as
if something unpleasant from the past had
chosen to reappear. He stopped and took a
deep breath, forcing himself to forget what
had just happened. He was allowing things
to get on top of him. He had to focus his
mind on what lay ahead.

The window was empty.
Alex hurried through the main gates. He

didn’t look back.

313/667

Jack was waiting for him when he got home.
She’d spent the morning at the famous Egyp-
tian Museum, looking at the treasures of the
boy king Tutankhamun. In the afternoon
she’d gone shopping and she’d even met
some of the other parents living at Golden
Palm Heights. They’d all been very welcom-
ing. Like their children, they were displaced
and needed to make friends.

Alex quickly told her about his first day at
the college. “You know, Jack, I think I’m ac-
tually going to quite like it there. Everyone’s
really friendly. The school’s okay. And at
least it’s not raining.”

“That’s good, Alex. Maybe this is all going

to work out after all.”

And yet, much later that night, after he’d

had dinner, done his first batch of home-
work, and watched half a bad film on satel-
lite TV, Alex wondered. He had taken the
smaller of the two bedrooms and was sitting

314/667

at a desk with views over the back of the
complex. There were no curtains and the
night was very black, dotted with stars. The
air-conditioning was on full and he could feel
it blasting over his shoulders. He’d opened
his laptop and logged into Facebook. The
photograph on his profile page had been
taken on a mountaineering vacation with his
uncle, Ian Rider. The two of them were sit-
ting next to each other on a ridge, both of
them with ropes coiled over their shoulders.
He wondered why he had chosen it.

He had eighteen messages, nearly all of

them from his friends at Brookland. The first
one was from Tom Harris:

Hey, Alex. Where are you, man? I’m out
of hodpital and now I know whatit feels
like to be shot. Hurt like hell. ThANKs
for dragging me down as I’d have just
stod there and let that nutter hit me a
secod time. I guess he ws aiming at you.
Yes? Hope this doesn’t mean you’re in

315/667

troubble again. Let me know, if you can.
EVEryone talking about it. Brookland on
News at 10, Daily Mail, Sun ETC. Now
we’re not allowed to talk to anyone. Typ-
img this with one hand. Two weeks off
school plus counseling. Ha ha ha. TOM

He quickly looked through the rest but didn’t
reply. How could he explain what had
happened in the last few days? Finally, he
opened a message from Sabina:

Alex . . . we saw Brookland on the TV
and heard what happened. I can’t be-
lieve someone tried to shoot you. Where
are you now? Mum and Dad really wor-
ried about you and guess this has got
something to do with you-know-what.
You said you weren’t getting into all that
again. Really worried about you. James
told me you’ve disappeared so hope
you’re somewhere safe. Let me know!!!
Sab xxx.

316/667

Sitting on his own, framed against the dark-
ness, Alex suddenly felt isolated, as if he
were trapped in some sort of cyberspace,
between two worlds. Here, in Egypt, he was
Alex Tanner, in a new school, making new
friends. But none of it was true and as soon
as the job was done, MI6 would pull him out
and he would disappear so totally and so im-
mediately that it would be as if someone had
just pressed the delete key. And yet, what of
his old friends, his real life in London? After
what had happened, would he ever be able to
return to it? Or had the sniper snatched it
away for good?

He was about to turn the computer off and

go to bed when he noticed he’d been sent a
new e-mail. He reached out for the mouse
and double-clicked.

Hi Alex,
Julius G wants to be friends with you on
Facebook. Respond now:

317/667

For a long minute he gazed at the screen,

at the brief message and the green panel:
CONFIRM FRIEND. He didn’t know anyone
named Julius, but that wasn’t so unusual.
He’d connected with lots of people he’d nev-
er met. So why did the name make him feel
so uneasy? He thought again of the boy he
had glimpsed in the window at Cairo College.
It had been a boy, he was sure of it.

Right now, Alex felt he needed all the

friends he could get. But not this one. He
didn’t know why, but some instinct told him
to stay away.

Alex pressed the button: IGNORE.
He turned off the computer and went to

bed.

Over the next two weeks, Alex fell into the
natural rhythm of Cairo College. Monday
was the quietest day of the week. Wednes-
days were the worst, with the biggest pile of
homework. School food was okay so long as

318/667

you avoided the pasta. He worked out which
teachers he liked best and which ones he pre-
ferred to avoid, and he made plenty of new
friends. He was still the new boy, but in an
international school like this, with people
coming and going all the time, people were
more quickly accepted. At the end of the first
two weeks he was called back into Monty
Jordan’s office and given his first report.

“You’re doing very well, Alex,” the princip-

al told him. “Your teachers all say you’re
making good progress, although Miss Wat-
son thinks you could focus a little more in
French. How are you finding it?”

“I’m okay, thank you, sir.”
“Good. I’m glad to hear it. By the way, I
see you’ve applied to join my politics set.”
This was one of the Extra Curriculum Activ-
ities. Alex knew that the Scottish boy,
Andrew, and Craig were both in the group,
which met once a week to discuss stories that
had appeared in the newspapers. They also

319/667

took part in a miniature version of the Un-
ited Nations, with everyone pretending to be
a different country. According to Craig, the
last session had ended with Belgium invad-
ing Holland and China declaring war on
everyone else.

But Alex wasn’t interested in politics. He

looked puzzled. “Actually, sir, I didn’t apply.”

Mr. Jordan frowned. “Didn’t you? That’s
strange. Your name’s down on the list.” He
took out a sheet of paper and examined it.
“That’s right. You’re definitely here. Why
don’t you join us anyway? We’ve got a couple
of interesting events coming up and you
might find it’s fun.”

Alex shrugged. It didn’t make any differ-

ence to him—and it made sense not to offend
the principal. “All right,” he said.

“Great. I’ll see you later in the week.”
And so he talked politics, he played soccer
(seven-aside in the air-conditioned gymnasi-
um), and he even got a small part in the

320/667

Cairo College production of Blood Brothers.
That made him think of Brookland. Right
now he should have been rehearsing for their
production of Grease. It struck him as odd
that no matter where in the world he went,
there were people trying to make him sing.

And yet Alex couldn’t settle in completely.

Although part of him felt ashamed of him-
self, he had a job to do. He wasn’t here as a
schoolboy. He was here as a spy. And that set
him apart. There wasn’t a moment when he
was able to forget it.

The transmitting device that Smithers had

given him, concealed in the bottom of his
water bottle, worked brilliantly. It turned
every mobile phone into a bug, and wearing
the sunglasses, Alex was able to pick up con-
versations across the school yard. At the
same time, though, it told him a lot of things
he didn’t want to know. Miss Kennedy, who
taught chemistry and physics, was having an
affair with Mr. Jackson, who was in charge of

321/667

sports. Miss Watson had a mother in the
hospital in England and was desperately
worried about her. Monty Jordan had just
applied for another job in a school in New
Zealand. These people weren’t criminals or
terrorists, and Alex hated prying on them. It
made him feel shabby.

There was also a limit as to how much he
could pick up. The guards spoke Arabic, so
there was no point eavesdropping on them.
And although he saw Erik Gunter a few
times, the head of security seemed to make a
point of never speaking to anyone. Alex had
positioned one of the fake light switches out-
side Gunter’s office and had spent as much
time as he dared lingering in the corridor,
listening to what took place inside the room.
Gunter had made a couple of phone
calls—one to a company that maintained the
school alarm system, one to a doctor to order
more painkillers. Either he was very careful

322/667

or completely innocent. Alex still wasn’t sure
which.

At the same time, he did his best to assess
security at Cairo College, the other half of the
job that Blunt had given him. It was strange
to sit in the courtyard and try to imagine
himself as a terrorist. But if he were going to
target the school, where would he begin?
Who would be his first target?

And the truth was fairly bleak. The school
had guards, identity cards, security cameras,
wire fences, and alarms. But none of the
guards were armed, and any well-organized
group would be able to break in and take
over the place in minutes. And if they were
thinking about kidnapping—perhaps one of
the names on the list that Smithers had
brought to the apartment—they wouldn’t
even need to come close. Simon Shaw, the
son of the Australian gasoline king, walked
home every day. Anyone in a car could just
pull up and drag him in. All the rich kids at

323/667

Cairo College were determined to live an or-
dinary life. And that meant no bodyguards,
no armor-plated sedans, hardly any security
at all.

The one weak link, the only lead they all

had, was Erik Gunter. He was the new secur-
ity officer. He must have been recruited for a
purpose. If Alex could just break into his of-
fice, perhaps he might be able to pick up a
clue and bring this whole business to an end.

On Friday afternoon, at the end of his
second week, Alex stopped in front of the
room on the ground floor, near the main en-
trance. The windows were locked and
barred, but he had often seen Gunter going
in and out through the door. He didn’t use a
key. He pressed his thumb against an elec-
tronic scanner and the door clicked open.
Alex quickly checked out the technology. Be-
hind the glass panel was a light sensor sys-
tem, the same sort of thing that could be
found in any digital camera. This would take

324/667

a picture of Gunter’s thumb, which would be
turned into a series of dots by an analog-to-
digital converter. Somewhere in the system,
there was a second picture. If the two
matched, the door would open.

Alex needed Gunter’s thumb . . . and it

needed to be connected to his hand. Cutting
it off and pressing it against the glass
wouldn’t work. Nor would a photograph.
Cairo College had installed a sophisticated
system that also incorporated a pulse and a
heat sensor. Only the real, living thing would
do.

But surely that was possible.
Alex took out the notepad and pen that

Smithers had given him. Working quickly, he
sketched an illustration of the door and the
keypad. He wrote down the trade
name—Securi-Scan—and the serial number.
Then, underneath, he scribbled a message:
Can you get me in?

325/667

He underlined it, then closed the pad and

put it away. The image and the question
should have instantly appeared on Smith-
ers’s computer screen. Hopefully he would
come up with a solution over the weekend.

Alex picked up his backpack, threw it over

his shoulder, and set off home.

12

IN THE PICTURE

ERIK GUNTER WAS AWAY for the whole of
Monday at some sort of conference in Alex-
andria, handing over security to his assist-
ant, an Egyptian named Naquib who spent
the entire day either smoking or dozing in
the sun. It was infuriating to know that
Gunter’s office was empty—but Alex couldn’t
break in without him. He had to wait for his
return and it wasn’t until the end of Tuesday
that he finally got his chance.

It had been another ordinary school day,

but Alex had been unable to concentrate,
knowing that he was about to make his
move. He had noticed Gunter at lunchtime,
sitting with some of the teachers, drinking a

327/667

glass of milk. He had never actually seen the
head of security eat anything solid. Somehow
he had managed to get through French, his-
tory, math, and all the rest of it. He’d gone
swimming, rehearsed the school play. And fi-
nally he was on his own, hanging back after
the last lesson had ended. He was fairly sure
that he was the only boy left in the school. It
was now half past three. The gates would be
locked at four o’clock—allowing him a win-
dow of just thirty minutes. It might not be
enough.

By now, Alex knew the movements of

Gunter, Naquib, and everyone else whose job
it was to patrol the school and keep it safe.
Gunter returned to his office at a quarter to
three every day. He worked there for about
twenty minutes, then went over to the main
gate to watch the students leave. It was sur-
prising that this was one part of his army
training that he seemed to have forgotten.
He repeated himself—and repetition is a gift

328/667

to the enemy. It makes you predictable. It
makes you an easy target.

Alex waited in the corridor close to the of-

fice until there was a click and the door
opened. He moved forward, timing it so that
he arrived just as Gunter emerged. He
glanced briefly inside before Gunter closed
the door. The lock engaged automatically.

“Tanner!” The security man was surprised

to see him. “What are you doing here?”

“I came to see you,” Alex said.
“Why?”
Alex put his hand in his pocket. “I found

this.” He took out an iPhone and handed it to
Gunter.

“What about it?”
“Well, someone left it in class. I tried to

start it up, but it’s locked. I thought you
could find out who it belongs to and hand it
back.”

Gunter scowled. With his shaven head and

hostile eyes, he had the sort of face that

329/667

showed anger very easily. “Lost property is
no business of mine. You’ve got to hand it in
at the gate. They’ll put up a notice and who-
ever’s left this can claim it when they get into
school tomorrow.” He handed it back and
began to move away, again with that strange,
fumbling progress that suggested his
muscles and skeleton weren’t quite working
together.

He had taken only two steps when he
turned around. “How are you getting on
here?” he asked.

“I’m fine,” Alex said.
“But you must be missing your friends in

London.”

“Yes. But I’ve got a lot of friends here too.”
“Good. I’m glad to hear it.”
Gunter clumped his way down the cor-

ridor, leaving Alex wondering how he could
possibly have known that he came from Lon-
don. Of course, Gunter could have looked at
his file. But that was in the main office—and

330/667
why would he have bothered to search it out?
It was an interesting slip. Alex made a men-
tal note of it.

The corridor was empty. It was three

thirty-five. Alex was still holding the iPhone,
cradling it in the palm of his hand, being
careful not to place his own fingers on the
screen. He hadn’t actually found it. In fact, it
had arrived over the weekend, sent by
Smithers and delivered in a padded envelope
with a single sheet of instructions. Alex tilted
the iPhone, checking the screen. Yes. Gunter
had left a perfect thumbprint. He searched
for the little button on the side and pressed
it. There was a slight buzzing sound and the
whole thing began to vibrate in his hand as
the image was reversed and then repro-
duced. It took about twenty seconds, and
then a thin sheet of pink latex slid out of a
slot where the power cable would normally
have been attached. Alex pressed his own
thumb onto it, then wrapped the sides

331/667

around. If the machine had worked, he
would now be “wearing” Gunter’s thumb-
print—but then, when had Smithers ever let
him down?

He touched his thumb with the latex cov-

ering to the screen. The machine read the
thumbprint, at the same time registering the
blood temperature behind it, and the door
clicked open immediately. Somewhere, in
the near distance, someone called out. Alex
didn’t move. It was one of the guards. If he
came along the corridor now and saw the
open door, that would be the end of it. But
then he heard footsteps going up the stairs to
the first floor. He looked left and right. He
knew there were no cameras here, but any-
one could appear at any moment. Gunter
would be back in around twenty minutes. He
had to move fast.

He went in and shut the door behind him.
The office was exactly as he had imagined

it would be: clean, very tidy, half empty.

332/667

There was a desk, a couple of chairs, a steel
filing cabinet, bookshelves, and very little
else. A large window, barred on the outside,
looked toward the main gate. This was surely
where the boy had been standing, spying on
Alex as he left. Fortunately, Gunter had
lowered the blinds before he left, so Alex
could move freely without fear of being seen.

He began with the desktop. There was a

diary with a few notes scribbled in Eng-
lish—but they all seemed to relate to meet-
ings within the school and there were no ad-
dresses or telephone numbers of any in-
terest. Gunter had received about a dozen
letters. Alex flicked through them. There
were several job applications. A salesman
from an alarm company was trying to make
an appointment. The wife of the Italian am-
bassador had written in to complain about
locals at the school gates wolf-whistling Gab-
riella. Again, there was nothing to suggest
any conspiracy, but then of course Gunter

333/667

was a careful man. Even though his office
was locked, he wouldn’t have left any evid-
ence in view.

Alex examined the bookshelves. Gunter

seemed to like murder mysteries and
thrillers. There were books by Agatha
Christie and Andy McNab. A guide to Egypt
stood next to a thick volume called Teach
Yourself Arabic. Neither of them seemed to
have been opened. Otherwise the shelves
were empty. Nor were there any pictures on
the walls. The room gave the impression of
someone who had just arrived or who was
about to leave. Maybe Gunter didn’t expect
to be at Cairo College very long.

Next, Alex turned to the filing cabinet. It

was locked and he was annoyed that he
hadn’t asked Smithers for something to help
him break in. He remembered the zit cream
he had been given on his first assignment. A
few drops of that would have quickly burned
through the metal. Well, he could always

334/667

come back to the office another time,
provided he hung on to the latex thumb.
He returned to the desk and tried the

drawers. The first contained pens, envelopes,
a flashlight, and a pile of report sheets, which
Gunter must have been expected to fill in
every day. The second drawer looked like a
medicine chest. It was filled with different
pills and a bottle of some sort of white liquid
that smelled of peppermint. It reminded Alex
that Gunter was a sick man, a wounded sol-
dier—and for a brief moment he was temp-
ted to leave. He had no right being here,
trawling through someone’s private life. But
it was too late to worry now. He had a job to
do. He might as well get it over with.

Somebody knocked on the door.
Alex froze as a voice on the other side

called out in Arabic. It might have been the
guard he had heard earlier. Was he looking
for Gunter? Or had he somehow worked out
that there was an intruder inside? There was

335/667

nothing Alex could do. If the door opened,
there was nowhere to hide. Ten seconds
passed. Alex listened to the sound of his own
heart beating. Nobody came in. Whoever had
been there must have gone.

Moving more quickly now, afraid that he

might be discovered at any minute, Alex
tried the third drawer. It was empty apart
from a couple of brochures, advertising the
college. He swung it shut again, then opened
it a second time. Was it his imagination, or
had something metallic moved somewhere
inside the drawer? He had heard it, a distinct
rolling sound followed by the clunk as it had
hit the wooden edge. He took the brochures
out. There was nothing underneath them.
Unless . . .

Alex placed his hand flat on the bottom of
the drawer and pushed. It tilted and he saw
that he had discovered a false bottom, that
there was a secret compartment underneath.
Gunter had dropped a Biro into the hidden

336/667

space and it had rolled from one end to the
other with the movement of the drawer.

What else was there? Alex put his hand in
and pulled out a gun, made in Russia with a
star engraved in the handle. Was that
something Gunter kept for his job at the
school? And if so, why was it concealed here?
It had been resting on top of a map . . . the
edge of the Sahara and an oasis town called
Siwa. It seemed an unlikely vacation destina-
tion, although Cairo College did sometimes
organize trips into the desert. Next out was a
newspaper, a copy of the Washington Post,
about a week old. The front page was given
over to a big article about the president’s
plummeting approval ratings and, under-
neath it, a smaller one about pollution in the
Gulf of Mexico. There might be something
relevant inside, but Alex didn’t have time to
read it. MI6 could buy the same edition and
do that for themselves. Alex memorized the
date and set the paper aside.

337/667

There was nothing else in the drawer ex-

cept for a bundle of photographs. Alex
spread them out over the surface of the desk
and examined them. Most of them showed a
large domed building that reminded him of
the Albert Hall in London but that, from the
palm trees that surrounded it, was more
likely to be somewhere in Cairo. The pictures
had been taken from every angle. There were
cars parked outside and people—many of
them young and carrying books—crossing
the lawns that surrounded it. Some sort of
school or university? This was a modern, lib-
erated place. Some of the women were in
jeans and hardly any of them were wearing
head scarves or veils.

And then there was a picture of a room,

perhaps inside the domed building. It wasn’t
so much a room as a wide storage closet or a
cellar. Alex saw red tiles, old paint cans, and
a mop in a bucket, leaning against a corner.
What on earth could Gunter want with a

338/667

photograph of this? The next picture was
even stranger. It was a close shot of a coat
hook, presumably in the same room. The
hook was in the middle of a brick wall,
shaped like a swan’s neck. The edge of the
metal had caught the flash, which was blur-
ring much of the image. It certainly wasn’t
going to win any prizes in a “Views of Cairo”
competition.

There was one picture left. Alex turned it
over and frowned. He was looking at a pho-
tograph of himself. It must have been taken
sometime in the past two weeks. It showed
him in full school uniform, walking through
the gates at the end of the day. The photo-
grapher must have been inside Gunter’s of-
fice. Alex was in the far distance, barely more
than an inch high. But it was definitely him.
The definition was good enough for him to
see his own face. Even so, there was
something about it that puzzled him. He

339/667

examined it carefully. There was definitely
something wrong.

Alex took out his own iPhone—a real one

with a three-megapixel camera—and took
snaps of all the photographs he had looked
at. Then he carefully returned them to the
secret drawer, making sure they were in the
same order he had found them, and laid the
gun on top. He wondered if MI6 would be
able to make anything out of them. Well, it
was up to them now. He had finally achieved
something. Maybe he had even bought his
ticket back home.

Alex made sure he had left nothing behind,

then tiptoed over to the door and listened.
There was nobody outside.

He slipped out into the corridor and

quickly walked away.

It was almost four o’clock. He was very late

leaving. If anybody asked him what he was
doing, he would say he had forgotten his
homework and gone back for it. He passed

340/667

the school secretary’s office—there was
nobody there—and went through the main
doors, back into the searing heat of the yard.
The gates were ahead of him. A couple of
guards were standing there, smoking cigar-
ettes, thinking their work was done.

And then he saw Gunter on the far side of

the yard. He was talking on his mobile phone
with his back slightly toward the school as if
he was afraid of being seen. It was too good
an opportunity to miss. Alex was already
wearing his sunglasses. He stepped back into
the shadows and took out his water bottle.
He pointed it in the right direction, and a
second later he heard Gunter’s voice, so
clearly that he could have been standing next
to him.

“The House of Gold. Yes, of course I know
it.” There was a pause. “Five o’clock tomor-
row. I’ll come alone . . . Do you think I’m an
idiot? And if I’m satisfied, I’ll authorize the
final payment.”

341/667

Gunter hung up, then walked away, disap-
pearing around the side of the building. Alex
waited a minute, then darted toward the
main gate. Suddenly, things seemed to be
happening very quickly. The head of security
must be on his way to some sort of secret
meeting. A payment was involved. It had to
be part of the conspiracy that MI6 was look-
ing for. Alex had passed through the gate and
realized he was standing in exactly the same
spot where his picture had been taken. And it
was then that he knew what was wrong.

In the photograph that he had seen, he

had been standing on his own . . . as he was
now. But he had never once left the school on
his own. He was sure of it. Simon or Craig
walked home with him every day. If it wasn’t
them, it was Andrew or one of the other
Scottish boys. Always there were other kids
around. Alex left at the same time as every-
one else.

342/667
So where had they gone? Had they all been

airbrushed out? Or was he simply wrong?
Had there been a moment when his image
could have been captured with nobody else
about?

It didn’t matter. The House of Gold at five

o’clock the next day. Wherever it was, Alex
planned to be there, and in his hurry to get
back to the apartment, he didn’t look around
and didn’t see Gunter emerge from the side
of the school to watch him, his lips stretched
in a thin smile. Nor did he hear him make a
second call.

“He listened in on the conversation. He’s

taken the bait. He’s clearly not quite as clever
as he’s cracked up to be. He’ll be there to-
morrow. I know what to do.”

13

THE HOUSE OF GOLD

ALEX FOUND IT EASILY enough on the In-
ternet. The House of Gold turned out to be
some sort of shopping center specializing in
jewelry. Fine gems and all your gold & silver
dreams. That was how it advertised itself on
the website. Come and seek us for the best
prices in Cairo. The name should have given
it away, but it still seemed an unlikely destin-
ation for a man like Erik Gunter.

“Perhaps he’s just going to buy a ring for
his girl-friend . . . or his wife, if he has one,”
Jack suggested.

“He said he was going to authorize the fi-
nal payment,” Alex said. “You don’t do that
with a wedding ring.”

344/667

“He doesn’t have to be meeting a jeweler.

He could be meeting anyone.”

“It’s a strange place to want to meet . . .”
The two of them were sitting in the living

room of their apartment. Jack had been
waiting for Alex with two glasses of ice-cold
lemonade and a plate of sandwiches. He was
normally hungry when he got back from
school. Outside, the swimming pool was
crowded . . . There was a rough version of
water polo going on, and Craig and Jodie had
called out to Alex to join them as he passed.
But he had gone straight to the computer.
houseofgold.org. Then he had told Jack what
had happened, what he had found inside
Gunter’s office. It wasn’t a lot to go on, he
realized. Not after two and a half weeks in
Egypt.

“He wasn’t buying jewelry,” Alex insisted.

“He sounded . . . I don’t know . . . mysteri-
ous. As if he didn’t want to be overheard.”

345/667

“You’re sure he wasn’t leading you on?

Maybe he wants you to follow him.”

Alex shook his head. “He couldn’t have
known I was listening to him. I was a long
way away, on the other side of the yard.”

“What about the pictures you found in his

desk?” Jack had Alex’s iPhone. She flicked
through the images on the screen.

“I don’t know. We’d better pass them on to

Smithers. He can send them to MI6. Why
would anyone take a shot of a hook on a
wall? And what’s this building? Do you think
it’s somewhere in Cairo?”

Jack held up the iPhone. “Nice shot of

you,” she said.

“Yes. But if Gunter took it, then it means

he knows who I am.”
“Not necessarily.”
“Why else would he have it? You think he

takes photos of all the new boys?”

They fell silent. Jack had been out in the
sun and she was looking tanned. They both

346/667

were. It reminded Alex how long they’d been
away.

“What are you going to do about Gunter?”
“I suppose I’d better follow him.” Alex

went on before she could argue. “I’ll make
sure he doesn’t see me, Jack. But I know that
the House of Gold has got something to do
with whatever’s going on. Five o’clock. I can
go there after school.”

“You mean, we can go there after school.

That’s why I’m here, Alex. I’m keeping an eye
on you.”

“Thanks, Jack.” Alex gulped down his lem-

onade. It was deliciously cold. “I’m really
glad you came.”

“Are you?”
“I don’t know what I’d do without you.

You’re always there for me. And you make
the best sandwiches.”

Jack smiled. “You’d better get on with your

homework,” she said. “You don’t want your
teachers breathing down your neck.”

347/667

An hour and a half of European history.

Alex wondered if there were any other secret
agents in Cairo being sent upstairs to do
their homework. But he didn’t complain.
And an hour later, immersed in the invasion
of France and the evacuation from Dunkirk,
he was almost grateful that he could put
everything else out of his mind.

The next day was a Wednesday. It was also
the day when Alex realized that his time at
Cairo College was drawing to a close.

He was having lunch with Andrew and
some of the Scottish boys when one of the
seniors came over to their table. It was un-
usual for the older boys to mix with the
tenth-graders, but he realized that this one
was examining him. He looked up into a face
that he vaguely recognized: dark, spiky hair,
blue eyes, pockmarked cheeks.

“Alex?” the boy said. “You don’t remember

me?”

Alex did remember him. But he pretended

348/667

not to.

“I’m Graham Barnes. I was at Brookland

until last year when my dad got sent out
here. You’re Alex Rider, aren’t you?”

It was the worst coincidence in the world.

In their first term at Brookland, new boys
were paired up with older students, more or
less the same system that they had here. Alex
had been looked after—quite well—by Gra-
ham. There was no point denying who he
was.

“Yes,” he said. “That’s me.”
“Rider?” Andrew made a face. “I thought

your name was Tanner.”

“My mother remarried.” It was the first

thing Alex could think of to say. “Before she
died,” he added weakly.

“Yeah. Well, it’s good to see you.” Graham

nodded at the other kids. “I’ll see you
around.”

349/667

The rest of them went on talking as they
had before, but Alex noticed Andrew glan-
cing at him once or twice and knew that he
had been found out. He might not know the
reason, but he knew that Alex had lied. It
was like the seed of a poisonous plant . . .
and very quickly it would start to grow.

The day seemed to last forever as far as Alex
was concerned, but finally three thirty came
and the end of school. The usual fleet of
buses arrived, clumsily maneuvering around
each other in the space outside the main
gates. Most of the school left on foot and
Alex was among them. He noticed that
Andrew avoided him. And maybe he had
spoken to Craig and Simon, because even
they left him alone.

He was glad to see Jack, who was waiting

for him with a black-and-white cab. “Are you
sure about this?” she asked.

350/667

Alex nodded. He was more sure of it than

ever. “Let’s go,” he said.

The two of them got in and Jack leaned

forward and gave the driver his instructions.
She had printed up the home page for the
House of Gold and the address was there in
Arabic as well as English. She also made sure
that the meter was actually running. It was a
common trick for the Cairo drivers to leave it
off and then to charge double the right price
when they arrived.

The traffic in Cairo was as bad as ever, the
air full of exhaust fumes and bad-tempered
beeping. By the time the driver dropped
them outside a smart hotel and next to the
river, Alex and Jack were grateful to get out.
Jack had brought Alex a change of clothes
and he had wriggled into them on the back-
seat. When he got out, he was wearing a T-
shirt, khaki knee-length shorts, and sandals.
Jack took care of his uniform. Dressed in two

351/667

shades of blue, he would have stood out at
twenty paces.

It was only now that they saw that the

House of Gold wasn’t a house at all. It was an
old paddle steamer, like something out of an-
other age, permanently moored on the slug-
gish brown water of the Nile. The boat was
three levels high, painted white, with two
huge paddles at the back and a single funnel
close to the bow. At some time it had been
converted into a gaggle of jewelry shops,
each one built into the old cabins and state-
rooms. A gangplank led up from the quay. Its
name was written in gold over the entrance
on the main deck.

“What now?” Jack asked.
“We wait,” Alex said.
They found a little park with trees shading

them from the sun and sat down on a
wooden bench, tucked out of sight. From
here they could see everyone entering or

352/667

leaving the boat. Alex looked at his watch. It
was five to five.

“I should come with you,” Jack said.
“No. It’s better if you stay here. If anything

happens, you can call for help.”

If anything happens. Three small words.
But Alex knew how easily they could tear his
life apart.

And then another taxi drew up and Erik
Gunter got out. He had on the same black
suit that he wore at school with a small back-
pack on his shoulder. He paid the driver,
then made his way over the gangplank and
onto the ship. Alex didn’t hesitate. He was
already on his feet, following, leaving Jack
behind. And with all his attention focused on
the head of security, he didn’t notice the gray
Chevrolet that had been parked in the street,
on the other side of the park. Nor did he see
the two men who had been sitting inside it,
watching the paddle steamer just like him.
But they saw him.

353/667

“Hey—that kid. Quickly. Get his picture.”

The man spoke with an American accent.

“Why? What do you—?”
“Just do it.”
The second man raised a Nikon D3 digital

camera and pressed the button, capturing
Alex as he reached the gangplank, as he
stepped on it, as he began to climb. “What
are you interested in a kid for?” he deman-
ded sourly.

“I know who that kid is,” the first man

replied. “And you’d better get ready. It looks
like we’ve got trouble.”

Erik Gunter made his way through the
House of Gold, squeezing through the tour-
ists and local visitors who crowded out the
narrow passages. There were shops and
stalls on both sides of him with jewelers
standing outside, some of them wearing the
dark red Egyptian fez, like magicians about
to do card tricks. There was jewelry

354/667

everywhere: the same necklaces and
brooches that hung in every souk in Cairo.
Little pyramids on chains, Egyptian hiero-
glyphics, lucky cats, scarabs, portraits of
Queen Nefertiti and King Tutankhamen . . .
thousands and thousands of different pieces
on sale, all of them overpriced, half of them
fake.

Gunter stopped beside one of the stalls.

Immediately the owner, a fat little man, was
onto him. “What you want? I show you the
best. I make you the best price.” But Gunter
ignored him. There was a mirror on the
counter and he reached out and tilted it, as if
examining himself. But in fact he was look-
ing back the way he’d come, over his own
shoulder. And there he was, skulking in the
doorway of an antiques shop about fifteen
yards behind him . . . Alex Rider. Gunter al-
most smiled to himself. It was just as he had
said. This fifteen-year-old whiz kid from

355/667

British intelligence wasn’t quite so smart
after all.

The trap was set. Everything was in its

right place. Now all he had to do was finish
it.

He continued forward until he arrived at a
doorway with a CLOSED sign—the one place
on the paddle steamer that wasn’t ready for
business. He rang a bell and waited. There
was a buzz and the door clicked open. He
paused for a moment, then went in.

The shop sold antique weapons. There

were hundreds of them, spread out on
shelves and in glass cases, hanging from the
walls on hooks. Gunter ran his eye over
swords and sabers, flintlock pistols, old army
rifles and muskets, daggers with huge jewels
set in the hilts. It was an interesting collision,
he thought. Beauty and death. All these
weapons had once been used by armies or
nomadic tribes. The blades had severed flesh
and bone. The guns would have cut down

356/667

men, women, and children, sending them
crashing into the sand. And now they were
being sold as ornaments to hang in people’s
houses. Gunter wouldn’t have been able to
live with them. He knew too well the truth
about the pain that these things brought.
An old man, an Egyptian, had appeared

behind the counter: round glasses, thin face,
an old-fashioned wing collar and tie. The
man hadn’t shaved. Gray hair had spread
over his chin and his cheeks as if they were
diseased. He had thin lips and bad teeth.
And finally there were his fingers, long and
very precise—like those of a pianist. This was
a man who had spent his whole life working
with his hands.

“Mr. Habib?” Gunter asked.
“That is my name.” He spoke perfect

English.

“I’m Erik Gunter. I think you were expect-

ing me.” The old man didn’t move. Gunter
reached into his pocket and placed a small

357/667

metal object on the counter. It was a silver
scorpion.

The old man nodded slowly. “I was indeed

expecting you,” he said.

“Do you have it?”
“Of course.”
The man called Habib reached below the

counter and produced another gun. But
there was nothing antique about this one. It
was an L96A1 Arctic Warfare sniper rifle,
gleaming and deadly, a perfectly machined
and balanced piece of equipment. He laid it
out for Gunter to examine. “I have made all
the adjustments as requested,” he said. “Par-
ticularly to the trigger and to the static iron
sights.”

“What about the ammo?”
“I will be supplying you with fifty 8.59--

millimeter bullets. The gun has a ten-round
box magazine.”

“Can it be traced?”

358/667

Habib looked pained. “I do not ask you
foolish questions, Mr. Gunter. I do not ask
you why you require a piece of killing ma-
chinery as finely crafted as this. I would sug-
gest you do the same.”

“I apologize, Mr. Habib,” Gunter said, and,
reaching behind him, drew a pistol out from
the waistband of his trousers and shot the
Egyptian once in the middle of his head.
There had been almost no sound. The pistol
was silenced. The Egyptian stared as if he
couldn’t quite believe what had happened,
then slumped forward. Gunter snatched the
rifle away. He didn’t want it to be contamin-
ated by the rapidly spreading pool of blood.

Moving quickly, he went behind the

counter and found what he was looking for: a
golf bag, big enough to hold the rifle. He took
a cloth out of his backpack and wiped the
barrel clean. This was the only part of the
gun he had touched and he wasn’t going to
leave fingerprints. Using the cloth, he

359/667

lowered the L96A1 into the bag and zipped it
shut. Finally, he reached into the backpack
and found a cumbersome package with sev-
eral wires and a switch. He flicked the
switch, closed the backpack, and stuffed it
behind the counter. He took one last look
around. Then he left, satisfied with what he
had done.

In his haste, he didn’t quite close the door.

Alex Rider saw him go past. He noticed that
Gunter had swapped the backpack for what
looked like a golf bag. For a moment, the two
of them were almost next to each other. Alex
was inside one of the stalls, pretending to ex-
amine a mother-of-pearl jewelry box. He
glanced back as Gunter disappeared, then
stepped out into the corridor. The obvious
thing would be to follow the head of security.

360/667

That was what Gunter seemed to be inviting.
But then he noticed that the door of the shop
was ajar.

He took out his iPhone and texted Jack,

Gunter leaving. follow him. will meet later.
That was him taken care of. Now to see
whom he had met and perhaps what he had
been given.

Alex made his way down the corridor,

pushing through the crowds. The House of
Gold had an air-conditioning system, but
even so, it felt hot and sticky. A couple of
salesmen waved gold necklaces at him, but
he ignored them. He reached the door and
gently pushed it open. It took his eyes a few
moments to get used to the gloom. His eyes
swept over all the weapons. The place was
like a medieval arsenal. Then he saw the man
lying with the top part of his body on the
counter and his arms spread out protectively
around him. He could have been asleep, but
Alex knew instantly that he wasn’t. And it

361/667

wasn’t a red cushion beneath his head. He
could smell the blood in the sluggish air.

He backed out fast. He knew that he had

finally arrived at the heart of the conspiracy.
Gunter had just killed this man and it was
easy enough to guess what he must have
been carrying in the golf bag. But still it
made no sense. Was he acting alone or was
he part of a larger organization? And what
was the connection with Cairo College? Des-
pite everything, this trail had led him
nowhere. He still had no idea what was going
on.

Alex was feeling sick. He just wanted to get

back into the open air, and he wished now
that he hadn’t sent the instruction to Jack.
Gunter was a killer. If Jack got too close, she
could be in danger. He would call her again,
the moment he was out. But for now he was
fighting his way back down the corridor. The
gold and silver jewelry seemed to hammer at

362/667

him from every direction. He was almost
suffocating.

And then there was an explosion. Alex was

blown off his feet and he felt the entire
paddle steamer tilt violently to one side. All
around him, people began to scream, thrown
off balance. Gold chains, ornaments, and
brass plates came raining down. At the same
time, a plume of black smoke came surging
through the corridor, instantly wiping out his
vision. He could hardly breathe. All the elec-
tric lights had gone off.

Somebody fell on top of him. He pushed

them off and crawled on his hands and
knees. The paddle steamer rocked back
again—it was like being on some hideous
fairground ride. The crowds were still
screaming. And then there was a gushing
sound and Alex felt water— warm and evil-
smelling—surge around his hands and knees.
God! Erik Gunter—or someone working with
him—had blown a hole in the side of the

363/667

paddle steamer and it was sinking. If he
didn’t get out, he would go down with it.

Everyone else had had the same idea. The
jewelers were stuffing necklaces and chains
into their pockets, saving what they could.
They had forgotten that once they were in
the water it would only drag them down. The
floor moved again, slanting backward, and
Alex found himself clawing his way uphill.
There were people everywhere, all around
him. He drew up next to a sobbing Egyptian
girl—she couldn’t have been more than six
years old. She was on her own. He reached
out and put an arm around her, drawing her
with him. Behind him, he heard the sound of
shattering glass. One of the counters had
come loose, rolled down the deck and into
the wall. Gold coins and medals exploded out
of it.

The girl was snatched away. Her father or
uncle had found her and took her without a
word of thanks. Alex could see the exit in

364/667

front of him, a rectangle of light that slanted
heavily to one side. He climbed toward it,
dragging himself up with his hands. A
minute later, he was out on the deck, sucking
in the air, still tasting the smoke. The gang-
plank had fallen away. The paddle steamer
was jammed into the side of the quay as if it
had just crashed into it. Alex saw that the
thick ropes that had kept it moored were
preventing it from sinking altogether, al-
though they were already straining and
would surely snap at any moment. People
were hurling themselves over the side. Some
of them preferred the river to the hard fall
with solid concrete below. Alex decided to
join them. He was already soaking wet.
There was no point in risking a broken leg.
He slid down the deck and dived into the

murky water of the Nile. He vaguely
wondered what germs he was exposing him-
self to. They would probably kill him faster
than the bomb. He broke surface and swam

365/667
toward the quay, making his way through the
pieces of debris that floated all over the sur-
face. At the same time he noticed half-naked
Egyptian boys diving off the edge, into the
water. They weren’t trying to help anyone.
They were scavengers, looking for anything
of value that might actually float.

Jack, of course, was gone. How would he

contact her now? His iPhone would be
ruined. Alex reached the side of the quay and
pulled himself out. He examined himself. At
least he hadn’t been hurt. But he was filthy
and battered by the force of the blast. He
could taste the Nile water on his lips and
wondered how many millions of germs he
had managed to swallow. The bomb hadn’t
killed him. The river quite possibly might.

He crossed the quay, making for the park
where he and Jack had waited. He guessed
that as soon as she had heard what had
happened, she would make her way back to
the same spot. He found the bench and sat

366/667

down heavily. All around him, people were
milling past, many of them dripping wet.
There were white-suited police officers
everywhere, already taking command, blow-
ing whistles and shouting out orders. Of
course, the police were everywhere in Cairo.
This was a country that was always on high
alert against terrorism. They would have
spent months training for an event just like
this. Alex shook his head. How could this
have happened? It was the last thing he had
expected.

And then there was a man standing in

front of him. Alex looked up.

“Come with me,” the man said.
“What?”
The man opened his jacket, showing a gun
in a holster under his arm. “You heard what I
said.”

A second man had crept up behind him
and dragged him to his feet. Both of them
were in their thirties, clean shaven, with

367/667

sunglasses. The man with the gun had
spoken with an American accent.

“We have a car. We’re going to walk you

there. If you do anything, we’ll shoot.”

Alex didn’t doubt them. There was a seri-
ousness about them, a sense that they knew
exactly what they were doing. This was
something they had done before. One man
stood in front of him. The other was right be-
hind. Alex felt himself being lifted up and
frog-marched into the road. There was a gray
Chevrolet parked right in front of him. For a
brief moment he considered a countermove.
Right now, before it was too late, jabbing
with an elbow, then swinging around to kick
out.

But the man had been expecting it. Sud-

denly his arm was seized and twisted behind
his back. “Don’t even think of it,” he said.

Alex was bundled in. He was facedown on

the backseat of the Chevrolet. The door

368/667

slammed. Both men had gotten into the
front.

The road was clogged up with traffic but

the car swerved around, performing a U-
turn. And then they were clear, picking up
speed, leaving the dead man and the wreck-
age of the House of Gold far behind.

14

THE BELL ROOM

THEY DROVE FOR FORTY MINUTES,
heading for one of the many suburbs that
were hardly separate from the city itself.
That was the thing about Cairo. It was al-
most impossible to say where one area ended
and the next began. If ever a city could be de-
scribed as sprawling, this was it.

Alex tried to work out where they were go-

ing but soon gave up. He was lying on the
backseat with his head facing the floor. This
was what the two men had instructed. For
the first part of the journey, he did what he
was told, feeling, as the car lurched left and
right, like a rat caught in a maze. But the
farther they went from the House of Gold,

370/667

the more the two men relaxed, and he was
able to twist around so that at least he had a
partial view out of the window. Most of what
he saw was sky, but a few landmarks flashed
by—the hideous modern construction that
was the Cairo Tower, the American uni-
versity, the minaret of one of the main
mosques. Alex made a note of them. Later
on, it might help to work out where he had
been taken.

He had been dripping wet when the jour-
ney began, but somehow—a combination of
the heat and the air conditioning—he dried
out a little as they continued. Eventually, the
driver signaled and the car began to slow
down. Alex guessed they had arrived and he
tried to sit up, determined to see where they
were.

He was pushed down immediately. But in
that one brief second he was just able to see
an old-fashioned, possibly abandoned office
block and a sign that read Cairo Islamic

371/667
Authority before they turned off the road and
drove down a ramp leading underneath the
building.

The Islamic Authority? Alex wondered

what he had gotten himself into. Why should
a religious group have any interest in him?
The car stopped. There was a third man

waiting for them. The back door was thrown
open and Alex was dragged out. He found
himself standing in a drab underground gar-
age illuminated by strip lights that threw a
hard white gloss over the concrete walls and
floors. One of the lights was malfunctioning,
buzzing and flickering. It made the place
more nightmarish than it already was. There
were about a dozen other cars already parked
but no other drivers. Alex was alone with
three dangerous men. Their hostility bristled
in the air.

For the moment none of them spoke, and
Alex was able to examine them for the first
time. They were all of a type, about the same

372/667

age, all in dark suits and white ties. They re-
minded Alex of the sort of people who went
around towns knocking on doors, trying to
convert you to some religion. The man who
had first approached him—and who seemed
to be in charge—was built like an American
football player with huge shoulders and a
thick neck. He had a small upturned nose,
fair hair cut like a nail brush, and watery
blue eyes. His partner was similarly built, fit,
possibly ex-army. His hair was dark and he
was obviously mixed race . . . Native Americ-
an, maybe. The third man, the one who had
been waiting, was black, angry looking, smal-
ler, and lighter on his feet than the others.
He was looking at Alex with disbelief.

“Is this him?” he demanded.
“Yeah.” The fair-haired man nodded.
“What about Habib?”
“Habib is probably dead. The boat blew

up.”

“What?”

373/667

“You heard what I said, Franklin. Right

now, the House of Gold is on the bottom of
the Nile. And this kid was there—”

“I had nothing to do with it,” Alex said.
“Shut up!” Fair Hair snapped out the two

words.

“What are we going to do with him, Lewin-

sky?” Franklin, the black man, asked.

“We’re going to take him to the bell room.”
“Whoa!” The driver was unhappy. “We

can’t do that!”

“We don’t have time to talk about this,”
Lewinsky snarled. “And we’re not going to
talk about it in front of him. We need an-
swers to questions and we need them now.
So let’s take him down and get on with it.”

Down? They were already in the basement.

Alex didn’t like the sound of this, the way
things were going.

“You’re making a mistake,” he began.
“Save your breath,” Lewinsky said. “You’re

going to need it.”

374/667

Alex felt a hand shove him in the back and

he was propelled toward an elevator. The
driver pressed the button and the doors slid
open at once. The elevator was a steel box. It
was like walking into a refrigerator. The four
of them bundled in and they were carried
down. Alex was trying to quell a rising sense
of panic. Too much had happened in the past
hour—the discovery of the dead man, the ex-
plosion, the way he had been kidnapped in
broad daylight. He had no idea who these
people were or what they wanted. And what
was the bell room?

But more than anything, he was desper-
ately worried about Jack. He had sent her
chasing after Erik Gunter. Right now, he
needed to warn her about what he had seen
on the boat. She needed to know the danger
she was in. And it might well be that she had
heard about the explosion. If so, she would
be sick with worry herself. The least he could
do was tell her he was still alive.

375/667

“I want to talk to Jack,” Alex said.
“Who’s Jack?” Lewinsky asked.
“She’s a friend. She looks after me.”
“What? You mean she’s like your nanny?”
Alex ignored the taunt. “I have her mobile

number.” There was no response. “I just
want to let her know that I’m okay,” he said.

Lewinsky smiled unpleasantly. “What

makes you think you’re okay?”

They had traveled some distance under-

ground. Alex could feel it in his stomach and
in the sense of weight pressing on his
shoulders. The doors of the elevator slid
open to reveal a short, windowless corridor
leading to a single wooden door at the end.
Somehow Alex knew he didn’t want to find
out what was on the other side. But he had
no choice. Franklin and the unnamed man
had already left the elevator. Lewinsky laid a
heavy hand on his shoulder and propelled
him forward.

376/667

He walked down the corridor with a sense
of dread, a long shadow stretching ahead of
him. Franklin opened the door. It led into a
large room that was indeed shaped like the
inside of a bell, round with bare brick walls
that narrowed as they rose at least two floors
above his head. Alex didn’t like anything he
saw. The room had no windows and was lit
by a single bulb dangling on a wire. The door
was soundproofed. The floor was covered
with a thick rubber mat. In the middle there
was a wooden chair and to one side a narrow
table that had been constructed so that one
end sloped downward. The table had three
leather belts and Alex could see at once that
they were meant for him: one for his ankles,
one for his stomach, one for his shoulders
and arms. There was a bucket and a tap. The
room had been designed for one purpose.
There was no escaping it. It screamed at him
everywhere he looked.

“Take a seat.” Lewinsky gestured at the

377/667

chair.

“I’m okay standing.”
“You want to quit wisecracking and do as

you’re told? I can make this much, much
worse for you.”

“Why don’t you tell me who you are?”
Franklin and the other man exchanged a
look, but Lewinsky didn’t blink. “You’re the
one who’s going to answer the questions,” he
said. “Now sit down!”

Alex went over to the chair. He sat down

and watched with a mixture of curiosity and
disgust as Lewinsky leaned down and pulled
off Alex’s damp socks and shoes. Meanwhile,
Franklin closed the door. Lewinsky
straightened up and stood in front of him.
Alex’s clothes were sticking to him. His bare
feet dangled over the floor.

“Let’s start at the beginning,” he said.

“What were you doing at the House of
Gold?”

378/667

“What do you think I was doing?” Alex
replied. “I’m a schoolboy. I go to the Cairo
College of Arts and Education. You can call
them if you don’t believe me. I was buying a
present for my teacher.”

“Right—let’s get one thing straight and cut
this out,” Lewinsky interrupted. “I know ex-
actly who you are. You’re not a schoolboy . . .
or at least, you may be. But you’re also a spy
working for the British secret service. Your
name is Alex Rider. So let me ask you again.
What are you doing here in Cairo? Why were
you on that boat?”

Alex’s head spun. He wasn’t quite sure

how to respond. These people knew who he
was. But how? Cairo Islamic Authority. Who
were they?

“Look . . . I don’t know who you people are

or what you want,” Alex said. “But I’ve got
nothing to tell you.” He sighed. There didn’t
seem any point holding information back.
They would beat it out of him anyway. And

379/667

why should he suffer in silence to protect
MI6? It wasn’t as if he had chosen to work
for them. “I was following someone,” he said.
“A man named Erik Gunter. He’s the head of
security at the Cairo International College of
Arts and Education.”

“Why were you following him?”
“To see where he went!” Alex couldn’t res-
ist the answer but immediately regretted it,
seeing Lewinsky’s face darken. “There’s a
possible threat against the school,” he went
on. “I thought Gunter might be part of it. I
heard him talking on the phone and he led
me to the House of Gold.”

“And then?”
“He went into a shop. It was full of old

weapons. I went in after him and there was a
dead man there. I think Gunter must have
shot him.”

“Describe this dead man.”
Alex did the best he could. “He was old. He
had gray hair. To be honest with you, I didn’t

380/667

look at him that closely. There was a lot of
blood.”

“Habib,” Franklin muttered. “Habib’s

dead?”

“That’s right. I saw the body and I left the
room, and about ten seconds later the whole
ship blew up. That’s all I know—and if you
want to interrogate anyone, you should be
looking for Gunter. I can give you his address
if you like. It might stop you from wasting
your time with me.”

Lewinsky considered for a moment. Alex
could almost see the thought processes un-
winding behind his eyes. At last he came to a
conclusion and Alex knew at once that it was
the wrong one. “You’re working for MI6,” he
said.

“Yes.”
“Why are you in Cairo?”
“I’ve already told you.”
“I don’t believe you.”

381/667
Suddenly Alex had had enough. “Then why

don’t you go and——yourself.” He spat out
the swearword. “What’s the point in asking
me questions if you don’t believe the
answers?”

“You can make us believe you.”
“And how do I do that?”
Lewinsky must have given a signal. The

other two men grabbed hold of Alex and
pulled him to his feet. There was nothing he
could do. They were much stronger than
him. The two of them hauled him over to the
table and forced him down on his back.
Then, while Franklin held him, the man with
no name tied his ankles, arms, and chest,
drawing the belts tight. When they stepped
back, Alex couldn’t move. He was lying at a
slant with his bare feet slightly above his
head. Meanwhile, Lewinsky had filled the
bucket with water from the tap. It was the
last thing Alex saw. A moment later, a black

382/667

hood was drawn over his head, blocking his
sight and much of his air.

And with a surge of panic that he couldn’t
hold back, Alex knew what they were going
to do. He knew what this was called. Water-
boarding. It was a method of torture that
American soldiers had supposedly used in
Guantánamo Bay, one that they favored be-
cause it left no bruises or signs of injury. And
yet it was horribly effective. Alex had read
somewhere that a grown man was unlikely to
last more than fourteen seconds before he
begged to tell his inquisitors everything.

Effectively, they were going to drown him.
“I want to know why you’re here and what

really happened on that boat.” Lewinsky’s
voice was muffled. It came out of nowhere.
“I’ve told you!” Alex shouted through the

cloth.

“You haven’t told me anything. But you

will . . .”

383/667

Alex felt the extra weight as a towel was

laid across his face. Desperately he shook his
head from side to side, trying to throw it off,
but then two hands clamped down on him,
holding him still. Alex’s hands curled. All the
muscles in his legs and abdomen loosened as
sheer terror took control. And then the first
drops of water were poured onto the towel.
He felt the dampness against his face and
then, immediately afterward, the first symp-
toms of suffocation. He couldn’t breathe.
Worse than that. His lungs were tearing
themselves apart, his whole body trying to
swallow itself. He was going mad.

“What the hell is going on in here? What

do you think you’re doing?”

It was a new voice, coming from some-

where miles away. Alex tried to scream. No
sound came out. He honestly thought he was
about to die.

“Get that thing off him!”

384/667

There was a hand scrabbling at his face.
The towel had gone. The mask was torn off
and light and air hit him at the same time.
Alex was gasping. His mouth was wide open.
He knew he wouldn’t have been able to sur-
vive a second more.

A man loomed over him, and at that mo-
ment Alex knew exactly where he was and
who these people were. He would almost
have laughed if he hadn’t still been in shock.
Of course he should have recognized the
sign. In Miami, they had been Centurion In-
ternational Advertising. In New York it was
Creative Ideas Animation. And here—Cairo
Islamic Authority. Always the same initials.
CIA. The man’s name was Joe Byrne. He was
black, in his sixties, with white hair and the
earnest, caring face of a family doctor about
to give bad news. Alex had met with him
twice before and, despite everything, knew
him as a decent man, one who was usually
on his side.

385/667

“Alex, I don’t know what to say,” Byrne ex-

claimed. The belts had already been untied
and Alex had been helped to sit upright. “I
only just heard what was going on.”

“Sir—,” Lewinsky began.
“Save it for the court-martial, Lewinsky,”
Byrne snapped. “God in heaven! What did
you three think you were doing? This is a
kid!”

“He’s a British spy!” Lewinsky insisted.
“He’s on our side. He’s helped us on two

separate occasions. If it wasn’t for Alex
Rider, Washington, DC, would no longer be
there. Get out of here! I don’t want to see you
right now. I’ll talk to you later!” The three
men left. Byrne turned back to Alex. “Are you
feeling strong enough to get out of here?” he
asked. “Or do you need more time?”

“I’m fine.” Alex was still in shock, but he
slid himself off the table and picked up his
shoes and socks.

386/667
Byrne waited until he’d put them on. “Let’s

get some coffee in my office,” he suggested.
He led Alex out of the bell room and back
to the elevator. This time they took it up to
the ground floor, neither of them speaking.
Alex guessed that Byrne was giving him a few
moments to recover . . . or maybe he was still
fuming with anger himself. This time the
doors opened into a more comfortable area
with a reception desk, potted plants, mirrors,
and chandeliers. “We rent this place from the
Egyptian government,” Byrne explained.
“Half of it is pretty run-down, but the rest of
it is fine for our needs. This way . . .”

Byrne’s office was on the same level, with
smoked glass blocking the view outside. Alex
remembered his office in Miami. This one
was almost exactly the same, with fairly
standard furniture, a thick-pile carpet, a pic-
ture of the American president on the wall.
The CIA had offices all over the world and
they were probably all identical. Byrne

387/667

waved Alex to a seat, then picked up the
phone and ordered two coffees. He sat down
himself.

“First of all, I’m sorry about Blake Lewin-
sky,” Byrne began. “He’s not actually a bad
agent, but this new breed . . . they’re young
and they have no sense of proportion. Ever
since 9/11, you only have to whisper the
word terrorism and everyone starts behaving
like Nazis or fascists. But this time he went
too far. I swear to you, Alex, I’ll have him
sent back to Langley and he’ll end up work-
ing in the canteen!”

“Forget it,” Alex said. “He didn’t hurt me.”
“He would have if I hadn’t arrived in

time.” Byrne sighed. “I’m afraid there are
some things I have to ask you . . .”

“There’s not much I can tell you,” Alex

said. “But first I’d like to call Jack Starbright,
if you don’t mind.”

“Sure. Be my guest.”

388/667

Byrne handed Alex the phone and he

dialed Jack’s mobile. It rang several times,
then went to voice mail. That worried Alex.
There were plenty of areas in Cairo where it
was impossible to get a signal, but he
wouldn’t be able to relax until he had spoken
to her. “Jack,” he said. “It’s me. I’m okay. I’ll
meet you back at the apartment.” He didn’t
want to add any more with Byrne in the
room. He hung up.

The door opened and a young woman

came in with two cups of coffee and a plate of
cookies. She set them down and left again.

“You know, Alex, I can’t believe you’re out

here,” Byrne began. “Don’t tell me Alan
Blunt persuaded you to work for him again!”
Alex didn’t answer. He trusted Byrne, but

he also felt uneasy being trapped between
two intelligence services. He would have to
be careful what he said.

“So why are you here, Alex?”

389/667

“Why don’t you start by telling me what

you’re up to?” Alex replied. “Why were your
men watching the House of Gold? And who
is Habib?”

“Did you meet with him?”
“No. One of your men asked me about

him. But by the time I saw him, he was
already dead.”

“You didn’t shoot him?” It was impossible

to say if Byrne was joking or not.

“Of course I didn’t.”
Byrne nodded. “I believe you. This whole

thing is a mess. It’s just a miracle that no one
from that paddle ship was killed. Apart from
Habib, that is.” He paused. “All right, Alex.
I’ll tell you what’s going on. I guess I owe you
that much. But if you’re involved—you and
MI6—I want to know. Is that a deal?”

“Sure.” Alex helped himself to a coffee.
“Okay. We’re out here because the secret-
ary of state is arriving this weekend. I don’t
know how acquainted you are with American

390/667

politics, but our secretary of state is like your
foreign secretary. You could say she’s num-
ber two after the president . . . In fact, there
are a lot of people who say she could be the
next president. She’s outspoken and she’s
hard-line but she’s also very popular. And
she’s about to give a speech in Cairo.”

Byrne took his own coffee. He looked un-
comfortable about what he was about to say,
unsure whether he should give away his
secrets, but then he made up his mind and
went on. “This is all being hushed up at the
moment, but the speech is all about power.
Who are the big hitters in the world right
now? When it comes to talking about the big
issues—nuclear weapons, war, terror-
ism—who should be sitting at the top table?
Up to now, it’s always been the Americans,
you British, the Europeans, and so on. But
there are new powers in the world. The
Chinese. India. She thinks it’s time to make a
few changes. And—you’re not going to like

391/667

this, Alex—she doesn’t think the Brits have a
place anymore.”

“It doesn’t matter to me one way or the

other,” Alex said.

“No, of course not. Why should it? But it’s

going to make a lot of your politicians very
angry. If you ask me, the secretary of state is
playing politics. It’s coming up to election
time and there’s a lot of anti-British feeling
in the States right now. You remember that
big oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico? And then
there was that secret deal with Libya. A
speech like this is going to make all the right
headlines . . . for her. She’s way out of line.
Even the president has tried to draw her in.
But she’s going ahead anyway.”

“How does Habib fit into this?”
“I’m coming to him. Our job is to protect
the secretary of state while she’s in Cairo. It
doesn’t matter what she’s doing or saying.
That’s got nothing to do with us. We’re just
here—we’ve been here for two weeks now—to

392/667

look after her. And a few days ago we got a
tip-off that somebody might take a shot at
her, to prevent her from making the speech.”

“Habib?”
“That was just one of the names he used.
Mostly he was just known as the Engineer.
He sold weapons, Alex. Very precise, high-
caliber weapons such as sniper rifles. Actu-
ally, he’d provide you with anything from a
samurai sword to a hand grenade. But he
was a craftsman. Everything he supplied was
deadly accurate. Now do you begin to get the
picture? We get a tip-off. We know that the
Engineer is in town, so we start to watch
him. And then, four days before our secret-
ary of state is about to make a big anti-Brit-
ish speech, a British secret agent turns up
and—boom—there’s an explosion and Habib
is dead.”

Byrne slumped in his chair. Maybe it was

the heat. Maybe he was feeling his age.

393/667

“I’m not saying that Blake Lewinsky was

right, but perhaps it explains what he almost
did to you. Habib was dead and he needed to
know why.”

Alex’s mind was in a whirl. There was so

much he had to take on board. The main
question was—how much should he tell Joe
Byrne?

First, Erik Gunter. When he’d left the boat,

he’d been carrying a golf bag, and Alex had
no doubt now that it must have had some
sort of weapon inside. Was he here to assas-
sinate the American secretary of state? And if
so, who was paying him? Then there were
the pictures he had seen in Gunter’s desk. He
couldn’t show them to Byrne, as his iPhone
had been destroyed by the Nile water. But
the building, the room, the Washington Post
. . . they must all be connected. And what
about Cairo College itself? That was the reas-
on he had been sent out here. It was the

394/667

school, not some American politician, that
was meant to be the target.

He needed to see Smithers. That was the

important thing. Smithers could talk to Blunt
and Blunt could talk to Byrne. Suddenly Alex
felt an overwhelming desire to get out of
Cairo. He didn’t understand why, but he
didn’t like the way this was going. Not for the
first time, he had a sense of invisible forces,
of wheels within wheels. There was
something happening here in Egypt that
none of them understood.

“There’s not much I can tell you, Mr.

Byrne.” Alex found himself talking before he
even knew quite what he was going to say.
“The reason I’m in Cairo has got nothing to
do with your secretary of state. I was simply
sent to keep an eye on the Cairo Internation-
al College of Arts and Education in Sheikh
Fayed City. There’s a possibility that some of
the students there may be targeted . . . I don’t
know much more than that. I was following

395/667

their head of security, a man named Erik
Gunter, and he led me to the House of Gold.
I told Lewinsky this, but he didn’t believe
me. Gunter was the last person to see Habib
alive. I think he was the one who killed him,
and if I were you I’d strap him down to your
table and see where you get with the water
torture and leave me alone.”

Alex stood up.
“And now I’d like to go home. I’m worried

about Jack.”

Byrne nodded. “And I’d better put a call in

to your Mr. Blunt,” he said. “By the way, I
hear he’s on the way out.”

Alex was surprised to hear it. “He’s

retiring?”

“Not by choice.” Byrne reached for the

telephone. “I’ll get a car to take you home.
Once again, I’m sorry about what happened.”
A few moments later, the woman who had
brought the coffee came back in and led Alex
out to the street. Joe Byrne stayed where he

396/667

was, deep in thought. Despite all the evid-
ence, he had never believed that there was a
British plot to kill the secretary of state. Now,
after what Alex had told him, he wondered if
he should change his mind. For a start, there
needed to be round-the-clock surveillance on
this man Gunter. He would also raise the se-
curity to level red and order another search
of the Assembly Hall, where the speech was
taking place. It had been searched twice
already and on Saturday night, twenty-four
hours before the secretary of state arrived, it
would be locked down completely.

The Assembly Hall. A huge domed build-
ing surrounded by palm trees in the middle
of the University of Cairo. How could he ever
hope to make such a place completely safe?

And what of Alex Rider? With a bit of luck,

he’d be on the next plane back to England.
Safely out of the picture. In fact, if the boy
had had any sense, he would never have
come at all.

15

PLAN A . . . PLAN B

JACK WAS WAITING FOR ALEX when he
got back to Golden Palm Heights. In fact, she
was out and running toward him before the
CIA driver had even come to a halt. She half
dragged him out of the car and into her em-
brace. “Alex? What happened to you? I’ve
been so worried.” She pulled away from him.
“Your clothes are all damp!”

“Yes. I took a dip in the Nile.”
“You were on the boat when—?” She didn’t
want to put it into words. “I couldn’t believe
it when I saw what had happened. For a
minute I thought . . . Well, I didn’t know
what to think. But then I got your message.”

The car with the CIA man moved off.

398/667
Jack noticed it as if for the first time. “Who

was that?” she asked.

“It’s a long story, Jack. If you don’t mind,
I’m going to have a shower and get changed
first. I stink. And I don’t suppose you’ve got
anything for supper? I’m starving.”

A short while later, Alex and Jack sat down

to eat together on the balcony, allowing the
warmth of the evening to wash over them.
The sun hadn’t set yet but it was dipping be-
hind the buildings, throwing soft shadows
over the estate. The pool was empty. Alex
knew that Craig and Simon and all the others
would be inside by now, slumped over their
homework. He wished that he had so little to
worry about.

Alex had changed into a baggy T-shirt and
shorts. His hair was still wet from the shower
and there was a bandage on his knee. He
wasn’t even sure when he’d scratched him-
self, but Jack had noticed it at once and had
insisted on rubbing in half a tube of

399/667

antiseptic cream. He had, after all, taken a
dip in the Nile. It reminded Alex of all the
times she had looked after him in the past.
Some things never changed.

She had prepared an assortment of Egyp-

tian dishes: hummus, olives, stuffed grape
leaves, fried meatballs, and smoked auber-
gine—all served with warm aish baladi, or
Egyptian flat bread. She was drinking chilled
pink wine. Alex stuck to water.

“I was sitting outside the House of Gold,
wondering what was going on, when I got
your text,” she said. “I didn’t like the idea of
leaving you, but I waited for Gunter to come
out and I followed him like you told me to.
He looked like he was going to play golf or
something. He had a golf bag.”

“I know.”
“Well, he flagged down a taxi and I man-
aged to get one just behind him. It was like
being in a film. I followed him all the way
across Cairo and I thought he might be going

400/667

somewhere exciting, but in the end he went
into an apartment just around the corner
from here. I made a note of the address. I
think it’s where he lives. Anyway, after that I
wasn’t sure what to do, but I was worried
about you, so I went all the way back to the
House of Gold . . . except that it wasn’t there
anymore. There were police everywhere and
they were talking about a terrorist attack or
something. My first thought was to call Mr.
Smithers, but when I took out my mobile I
saw that you’d called. I got your message and
came back here.”

She poured herself another glass of wine.
“Now it’s your turn. What happened on the
boat? How did you escape? And who was the
man in the car?”

Quickly, Alex told her about his own or-
deal, starting with the dead man in the an-
tiques shop, the explosion, his capture by the
CIA, and the bell room. He left out the water-
boarding. He didn’t really want to relive the

401/667

experience and he knew Jack would have
been sickened. “That was a CIA car that
brought me here,” he concluded. “At least
they were decent enough to give me a lift.”
Jack shook her head. “This is absolutely

typical of Mr. Blunt,” she said. “He promised
us there wouldn’t be any danger, but we’ve
already got dead bodies on boats, bombs,
and political assassination. So what are we
going to do?”

The question had been hanging in the air
since he got back, and Alex had already been
considering the answer. “I think it’s time to
do what Mr. Byrne suggested,” he said. “We
ought to leave.”

“Back to England?”
“I suppose so.” Alex had eaten enough. He
put down his knife and fork and leaned back
contentedly. In the distance he could hear in-
sects of some sort—cicadas—that had already
started up in the undergrowth. “I still don’t
know what’s going on here, Jack,” he said.

402/667

“And my cover’s been blown. There’s a boy
here from Brookland who recognized me,
and it can’t be long before people start ask-
ing questions. It’s all getting out of hand and
I don’t want to be part of it.”

“Do you think the school’s under threat?”
“If I thought that, I’d stay. Cairo College is

okay . . . even Miss Watson. But I’ve been
there for almost three weeks and it all seems
completely ordinary. The only reason we
think it might be a target is because Mr.
Blunt told us—and you’re right, we can’t be-
lieve a word he says. Anyway, after what
happened today, it seems almost certain that
he’s wrong.”

Alex went over it all in his head once

again. But he couldn’t see any other
possibility.

“Erik Gunter must be involved with this
visit,” he said. “The American secretary of
state. He’d been to see this big weapons deal-
er and that bag he was carrying . . .”

403/667

“It wasn’t golf clubs.”
“Exactly. Maybe he’s a hired assassin.

Maybe he’s using his position at the school
as some sort of cover. But the CIA is going to
be watching him from now on. It’s got noth-
ing to do with the school and it’s got nothing
to do with me. So I might as well go.”

Jack nodded. “Are you going to tell Mr.

Smithers?”

“Yes. I’ll go and see him tomorrow while
you’re doing the packing. You’d better also
call the school and tell them I’m not well or
something.” Alex felt a little sad about that.
He’d have liked to have said good-bye to
some of the friends he’d made. But he knew
it was better not to. There would have been
too much to explain. “We can get a flight to-
morrow afternoon.”

“I agree with you,” Jack said. She lifted her

glass of wine and swirled it in front of her.
“But there’s just one problem. I’m not sure
England’s going to be safe for you, Alex.

404/667

Remember how this all started. Someone
tried to kill you.”

Alex knew that she was right. “Where,

then?” he asked.

“Well, I’ve been thinking. It’s probably a
crazy idea and you don’t have to make a de-
cision. But I was wondering if you wouldn’t
be happier in America.”

“America?”
Jack nodded. “It’s just a thought, Alex. You
might be safer there . . . in every sense. Away
from Alan Blunt and Mrs. Jones. You could
start a new life, maybe in Washington. You
know I’ve got family there.” She paused.
“The funny thing is, I was going to talk to you
about it before all this began.”

“You want to go home?”
“I wouldn’t go without you.”
“I don’t know, Jack. I really don’t.” Alex
tried to imagine leaving Brookland School
behind him, all his friends, the house in
Chelsea. And would MI6 leave him alone,

405/667

even if he was on the other side of the world?
“London’s got to be safer than it is here. Let’s
go home and see how things work out.”

“Sure.” Jack smiled. “Two business-class

tickets to Heathrow. We might as well travel
in style—and I can always get MI6 to pay.
The important thing is that we’re leaving
Cairo. Are you certain you don’t want me to
come with you to see Mr. Smithers?”

“No. I’ll be all right.”
“You won’t let him change your mind?”
“I don’t think he’ll even try. I’ve always

had the feeling that he’s on my side.”

“Well, that sounds like a plan.” Jack lifted

her glass. “So the toast is—home!”

Alex raised his own. “Home!”
The two of them clinked glasses in the set-

ting sun.

Night comes slowly in the Sahara Desert.

By eight o’clock, the sands were burning a
deep yellow and the shadows from the olive

406/667

trees were stretching out as if trying to es-
cape from the trunks that bound them. But
the sun was still there, sitting on the horizon,
and the heat of the day was only beginning to
retreat. The salt lakes were like sheets of
steel, utterly still. There didn’t seem to be a
breath of wind.

The crack of the bullet tore through the

great silence, splitting the very air. Seventy
yards away from the tip of the rifle, a black-
and-white photograph of Alex Rider
shuddered briefly, pinned to a wooden stake
that had been driven into the sand. It was a
perfect shot. A round hole appeared where
his right eye had once been, the last in a row
of five that snaked across his forehead. Lying
on his stomach, Julius Grief lowered the
sniper rifle—the Arctic Warfare L96A1 that
had been brought to him from Cairo. It was a
beautiful weapon, he thought. He couldn’t
wait to use it for real.

407/667

In the distance he heard soft applause.

Razim was standing on the parapet of the old
French fort, wearing a freshly laundered,
very white dishdasha.

“Come inside, Julius,” he called out.

“We’re about to turn on the night defenses
and I wouldn’t want to see you being blown
apart.”

Julius stood up, brushing sand off his

chest and thighs. He was wearing loose-fit-
ting shorts and a striped shirt with the
sleeves rolled up. His hair had been cut a
little shorter since his escape from the
Gibraltar prison. He was also thickly
smeared with sunscreen . . . He burned easily
and it was important that his appearance re-
main the same.

He had been brought by ship from Gibral-

tar, all the way around the northern tip of
Africa to the resort town of Marsa Matruh,
and then driven south to Siwa. He had been
at the fort for two weeks, almost exactly the

408/667

same time that Alex had spent at the Cairo
International College of Arts and Education.
Razim had been keeping a close watch on
him. The entire world thought he was dead
and it was vital that things stay that way. Of
course, Julius had complained. It was as if he
had been transferred from one prison to an-
other, and in the end Razim had allowed him
to visit Cairo with the promise that he would
wear a baseball cap and dark glasses to con-
ceal his identity and that he would stay well
clear of Alex Rider. Razim had been furious
to learn that Julius had disobeyed his in-
structions. So far, however, he hadn’t men-
tioned it.

Julius passed through the main entrance

and heard the whir of machinery as the solid
wooden and steel gates swung shut behind
him. He knew that miniature land mines,
buried in the sand, would have been activ-
ated all around the fort. A few nights ago, a
stray desert fox had tried to approach the

409/667

compound, scavenging for food. They had all
been woken up as the unfortunate animal
had been blown apart.

Drinks had been served on the terrace out-
side the house where Razim lived. This was a
neat, very square-cut building with two
floors . . . In fact, it could have been drawn
by a child. It had a front door and five
shuttered windows, one on each side and
three above, positioned with perfect sym-
metry. Wooden rods carved from palm
trunks jutted out of the side of the house just
below the tiled roof. It was part of the Berber
tradition. Local tribes-men would have hung
bones—animal and human—from the rods to
keep away devils. But looking at the two
people who had come together to watch the
sun set, they might have decided that it was
already too late.

Razim had a tall glass with gin and tonic,
ice, and lemon in front of him and, as usual,
he was smoking one of his Black Devil

410/667

cigarettes. Julius Grief sat down opposite
him, resting the gun against the table. He
raised a hand and one of Razim’s men hur-
ried over with a soda.

“That was excellent shooting,” Razim said.
“My father trained me,” Julius replied. “He

trained all of us. And every time we missed,
we got three strokes of the cane. By the end
of it, we were all pretty good shots.”

“He was a remarkable man.”
“He was brilliant.” Julius drank some of

his soda. “You know, they say it’s impossible
to clone a human being. Well, he managed it.
In fact he did it sixteen times.”

“And the plastic surgery?”
“That was done by some doctor he found.

A man named Baxter.”

“It must have been very disappointing for

you to find you had been given the wrong
face.”

“You have no idea.” Julius’s hand

tightened on his glass. “It wasn’t just that. I’d

411/667

spent months learning about David and
Caroline Friend. They were stinking rich . . .
They owned supermarkets and art galleries
and stuff. And I was going to move in as their
son and take it all from them. It would all
have been mine. But then Dad had to come
and tell me that Alex Friend didn’t actually
exist. His real name was Alex Rider. And
everything I’d done, everything I’d been
through was for nothing!”

Razim had already noticed that when Juli-

us became angry, he spoke with a South
African accent. He was angry now.

“He was a bloody spy! I couldn’t believe it!
And after that, everything went pear shaped.
He managed to escape and then he killed
Dad and that was the end of it.”

“I can understand how much you must
hate him. But even so, you were wrong to
disobey me.” Razim spoke softly, but there
was an edge to his voice. “Going to the school

412/667

was foolish. If you had been seen, it could
have ruined everything.”

“I was seen!” Julius laughed. “I put on that

uniform you gave me and I just walked in
through the school gates. So much for all
their precious security! They took one look at
me and they thought I was him. I went into
Gunter’s office and I waited and I saw him
leave. He actually turned around.”

“He saw you?”
“No. Don’t worry. But I think he sensed
me. It was quite interesting, really. It was
like a sort of telepathy.”

“And how did you feel?”
“Now you’re sounding like my bloody psy-

chiatrist, if you don’t mind my saying so,
Razim. How do you think I felt? If I’d had a
gun, I’d have used it then and there. I had to
stop myself from running out and strangling
him with my bare hands. I’d have loved to
have done it. I really would.”

413/667
In the courtyard, two of the guards had ap-

peared with shovels and a wheelbarrow,
walking toward an enormous mound of salt
on the other side of the well. It was directly
underneath the rope walkway. The salt had
been pounded until it was fine and it seemed
to Julius that it had a life of its own, shifting
and swirling in the breeze. A third guard
stood above, watching them.

“What are they doing?” Julius asked. The

men had begun to scoop out the salt, loading
it into the barrow.

“The salt has come out of the lake. We mix
it with sand to make bricks.” Razim gestured
at one of the half-finished buildings. “One
day this will be a library. I also plan to con-
struct a small concert hall.”

Julius sniffed. “You’d have thought it

would all dissolve in the rain.”

“It has not rained here for a hundred and

ten years.”

414/667

“That’s a lot of salt. Maybe we could take

off all Alex’s skin and roll him in it. That
would really hurt.” Julius giggled. “You are
going to let me torture him, aren’t you,
Razim?”

Julius had already attended several of
Razim’s experiments. Only that morning
they had been working on a tourist they had
picked up in Alexandria. Julius had watched
with fascination as Razim jotted down his
findings. Unfortunately, the tourist hadn’t
lived very long.

“You enjoy my experiments?” Razim

asked.

“Yes. Very much. Don’t you?”
“I do not derive pleasure from them. I

have never really understood pleasure. For
me, they are a scientific necessity—nothing
more, nothing less.”

“Well, I like them a lot.”
“And in answer to your question, I will al-

low you to spend a little time with Alex

415/667

Rider. And I can promise you that you will
cause him more pain than he has ever
known. You will have your revenge, my
friend. But only if you do as you are told. I
will not have you putting this operation at
risk again. Do you understand?”

“Yes.” Julius scowled.
“Good. Scorpia has made too many mis-

takes in the past. I do not intend to make any
myself. Alex Rider will be with us very soon,
and from the moment he arrives we are go-
ing to have to take extreme care.”

Julius finished his soda. Almost immedi-
ately, and without being signaled, a servant
ran forward with another.

“The gun will have to be decontaminated
tonight,” Razim continued. “And make sure
you don’t touch it again until it’s in place.
Meanwhile, it would seem that we do have
one small problem that we’re going to have
to deal with.”

“Oh? What’s that?”

416/667

“This morning I received a coded trans-

mission from Zeljan Kurst in Paris. MI6 have
taken one precaution that we could not have
foreseen. They have sent an agent out here to
keep a watch over Alex Rider while he is in
Cairo. He is a very fat man by the name of
Smithers.”

“Is that bad?”
“No. On the contrary. He visited Alex at

his apartment the day he arrived and we
have photographic evidence that we can add
to the Horseman file. It’s further evidence
that MI6 have been running a covert opera-
tion in Egypt. However, as we move toward
the critical stage, I do not think we can afford
to have him on the scene. It’s too
dangerous.”

“So?”
“So this is my plan.” Razim took a last drag

on his cigarette, and for a moment the tip
glowed the same color as the sun. “Mr.
Smithers must die. I will have it done

417/667

tomorrow. From what I have heard, and des-
pite his appearance, he is an extremely ef-
fective secret agent. So I think I will send
perhaps a dozen men.”

“That seems a bit over-the-top.”
“Learn from me, Julius. Maybe one day,
when this present operation is concluded,
you will join the ranks of Scorpia . . .”

“Really? Do you think they’d have me? I’d

love that!”

Razim smiled. He had already decided that

he was going to kill Julius as soon as he had
no further use for him. That idea he had just
suggested . . . flaying him alive and then
rolling him in salt. That might be interesting.

“We take no risks. We make no mistakes.
Tomorrow morning we kill Smithers and to-
morrow evening . . .”

“Alex Rider!”
“That’s when it begins . . .”

16

INSIDE EVERY FAT MAN . . .

THE STREET WAS JUST five minutes from
the souk, but it was surprisingly quiet and
empty, with just a few children kicking a soc-
cer ball around in the dust and not a tourist
in sight. The taxi dropped Alex off at a few
minutes before eleven o’clock. He had
already contacted Smithers using the note-
pad with its hidden circuitry. Smithers had
rung back immediately to confirm.
The house wasn’t difficult to find.
When Alex had been walking around the

city with Jack, he had noticed a few old
European buildings here and there . . . eleg-
ant and somehow out of place, as if the Egyp-
tians hadn’t noticed they were there and so

419/667

had forgotten to knock them down. They
dated back to the nineteenth century—the
Suez Canal had been built at the same
time—and might once have housed French
noble-men or engineers. Smithers had
chosen one of these and added a few touches
of his own.

It was a tall, narrow building on three
floors, constructed out of gray stone with
dark brown shutters and a little balcony pro-
truding over the front door. What made it al-
most unique in this crowded city was that it
stood alone, set back from the road. A gate
opened onto a path that swept up the center
of a lawn that was more dust and sand than
grass. There were two stone lions facing each
other about halfway up and, to one side, a
tall fountain with water tinkling down in
graceful loops. It was obvious that the house
belonged to an Englishman. There was a
large mat in front of the door with the single

420/667

word: WELCOME. A small Union Jack
fluttered on the roof.

Alex was already dressed for the flight

home—in jeans and a dark red Hollister polo
shirt. It was a little warm for the city, but
Jack was packing the rest of his clothes and
she had told him it was raining in London.
He walked up the drive, his feet crunching
on the gravel, and rang the doorbell. There
was a mirror set in the wall on each side of
the door and he examined the two reflections
of himself as he waited. A moment later, the
door opened and Smithers appeared.

“Do come in, Alex. Very good to see you. I
was just boiling the kettle. I hope you’ll have
a cup of tea and perhaps a slice of homemade
cake?”

Smithers was more informally dressed

than he had been at the apartment, wearing
pale trousers and a brilliantly colored short-
sleeve shirt. He could have walked straight
off a cruise ship . . . All that was missing was

421/667

the straw hat and the camera. He stepped
back to allow Alex into a hall that was shaped
like a hexagon with a marble floor, a chan-
delier, and rather strangely, golden-framed
pictures of the royal family on each of the
walls, with the queen and the Duke of Edin-
burgh glancing at each other, side by side,
opposite the door. There was an ornate table
with what looked like a TV remote control
sitting on the top. But there was no sign of a
TV.

“This way!” Smithers bustled ahead into

the kitchen, which was dominated by a stain-
less steel fridge. He threw it open to reveal
shelves stacked with food, much of it flown
in from England. There was a large cake on
the middle shelf. “A Victoria sponge,” he ex-
plained. “Can I interest you?”

“Not really, thanks, Mr. Smithers. I’ll just

have a Coke.”

“Will you stay for lunch?”
“I haven’t got time.”

“A short visit, then! Very well. Let me see .

422/667

. .”

Smithers put the cake back, then carried

two Cokes and a bowl of chips into the living
room, an airy, old-fashioned space with
plump sofas, bookshelves, and a splendid rug
that must surely have come out of the souk.
And yet, as Alex sat down, it occurred to him
that the house told him very little about the
man himself. It could have belonged to any-
one. What did he actually know about Smith-
ers, now that he thought about it? Was he
married? Was he gay? Where did he live
when he was in England? What did he do in
his spare time, apart from cooking himself
Victoria sponges? But of course, that was the
world of MI6 and all its agents. They didn’t
just live with secrets. Secrecy surrounded
their entire lives.

Smithers helped himself to a handful of
chips. “So you’ve taken my advice and de-
cided to leave,” he said.

“Yes.” Alex hadn’t told Smithers anything.

423/667

“How did you know?”

“I’m afraid I was tipped off the moment

your Miss Starbright booked the flights over
the Internet,” Smithers explained. “We keep
a very careful watch on the movements of
our agents, Alex. Half past three this after-
noon. You’re right. That doesn’t leave us
time for lunch.”

“I came to say good-bye.”
“That’s very decent of you.”
For some reason, Alex felt a sudden twinge

of guilt. “I hope you don’t think I’m walking
out on you, Mr. Smithers,” he said.

“Not at all, my dear boy. Although I do

wonder if this has something to do with the
explosion in Cairo yesterday afternoon? The
House of Gold. There has been a great deal of
excitement about that—and not just in Lon-
don. I don’t suppose you were in any way
involved?”

424/667

Quickly, Alex brought Smithers up to date,
starting with the office break-in, the contents
of Gunter’s desk, then the phone call and the
events on the paddle steamer. This time, he
didn’t leave anything out, and after he’d fin-
ished describing the waterboarding, Smith-
ers pounded the table with his fist, making
the rest of the chips jump.

“I like the Americans,” he exclaimed, “but
sometimes they’re completely intolerable. I
shall make an official complaint, Alex. They
had no right to do that to you.”

“It’s okay, Mr. Smithers. I’m all right
now.” Alex shrugged. “Anyway, maybe
Gunter really is going to take a shot at the
secretary of state when she comes to Cairo.
But as far as I can see, there’s nothing going
on at Cairo College. I don’t have any need to
be there. So I’m going home.”

He took out his iPhone and laid it on the

table.

425/667

“I’m afraid this got completely ruined

when it went into the Nile. But you might be
able to get something out of it. I took pic-
tures of all the stuff in Gunter’s desk. I still
don’t know why he had a picture of a coat
hook there. And there was also a brochure
about a place called Siwa.” Alex
stopped—then remembered. There was one
other thing. “I managed to leave the bug
behind.”

“I know, Alex. I’ve been listening in to Mr.

Gunter’s office all day, but so far he hasn’t
said a single thing of any interest. In fact, he
barely says anything at all.”

“I’m sorry,” Alex said. “I haven’t really

been very helpful to you this time.”

“You shouldn’t apologize.” Smithers’s

voice had changed. He was suddenly very
serious, talking in a way that Alex had never
heard before. And he got the strange feeling
that this new voice didn’t belong to the man
he had known for more than a year. It was as

426/667
if he was seeing the real Smithers for the first
time. “And what you just said now—about
walking out on us—it’s complete stuff and
nonsense. I’m glad you’re going. If you want
the truth, I was always opposed to your get-
ting involved in our business in the first
place.”

He paused, then continued more slowly.
“I never spoke my mind because it’s not

my job. I do what I’m told, like everyone else.
But it was wrong . . . quite wrong, getting you
involved. People think that being a spy is fun
and exciting. Your uncle was a bit like that. It
was all a big adventure as far as he was con-
cerned . . . and look what happened to him.
The truth is that spying is dirty, dangerous
work and it’s quite unfit for a child who’s still
at school. I won’t deny that you’ve been use-
ful to us, Alex. But at what cost? You were
very nearly killed at Liverpool Street—that
was unforgivable—and you’ve spent a whole

427/667

year surrounded by death and deception.
Nobody should have asked you to do that.
“So you’re absolutely right to be getting

out now. I don’t know what’s happening here
in Cairo, but I’ll tell you this. It’s got a very
nasty smell. Leave it. Go home. And the next
time Mr. Blunt or Mrs. Jones calls you, don’t
pick up the phone. You should forget about
us all.”

Smithers stood up. Alex knew that in his

own way he had just said good-bye. Perman-
ently. Alex got up too and the two of them
shook hands.

And then the doorbell rang.
“That’s very strange,” Smithers said. “I’m

not expecting any visitors.”

Alex followed him back out to the hall.
Smithers snatched up the remote control
that Alex had noticed earlier and pressed a
button. At once, the royal family disap-
peared. Each gold frame contained instead a
television screen with several views of the

428/667

house, taken from different angles. The
garden was empty but there was a man out-
side wearing a FedEx uniform, carrying a
small parcel.

Smithers moved over to the wall and spoke

into a microphone close to the door. “What
do you want?” he asked.

“I’ve got a parcel for a Mr. Derek Smith-

ers,” the man said.

“I’m afraid I’m rather busy at the moment.

Can you leave it outside?”

“I’m sorry, sir. You have to sign for it.”
“Just give me a minute.” He clicked the

microphone off and turned to Alex. “I think
we may be in trouble,” he said. “This is an
MI6 safe house. I designed it myself. But
nobody knows I’m here, certainly not any
parcel delivery companies.”

“Who do you think . . . ?” Alex looked at

the screen, at the man waiting outside.

“Let’s take a closer look.”

429/667
The buttons on the remote control were al-

most too small for his pudgy fingers, but he
chose another one and pointed the device at
the TV screen. The image flickered and
changed. Now the man in the FedEx uniform
had become a gray-and-white ghost of him-
self. Alex remembered the mirrored panels
he had seen. That must be where the X-ray
cameras were hidden. And they revealed two
things. The box that the man was delivering
was empty. And he was carrying a gun. The
shape of the weapon, tucked into the back of
his trousers, was unmistakable.

“Now that’s interesting,” Smithers

muttered. “Do you think this chap followed
you here? Or has he come for me?”

“Either way, I hope you’re not going to let

him in,” Alex said.

Smithers smiled. “I don’t think so.” He
pointed the remote at the door. “I actually
put the welcome mat in myself. Occasionally,
though, it becomes an unwelcome mat, as

430/667

he’s about to find out.” His thumb stabbed
down. The doormat collapsed. It was hinged,
like a trapdoor, and the fake FedEx man had
been standing right in the middle of it. With
a yell, he disappeared from sight.

“What’s underneath?” Alex asked.
“It heads directly to the Cairo sewers about

ten yards down,” Smithers replied. “He’ll
have a soft landing, but I’m afraid it won’t be
a pleasant one.”

“Mr. Smithers . . .”
Alex pointed at another of the monitors,

which only moments before had been a por-
trait of the Prince of Wales. It showed the
front gate. Two cars had pulled up, and even
as he watched, half a dozen men poured out,
all of them Egyptian, all of them dressed in
dark clothes. Perhaps they were all in radio
contact, but somehow they seemed to know
what had just happened. Warily, they made
their way up the garden path. Two of them

431/667

had machine guns slung across their chests.
The others were carrying automatic pistols.

“How many gadgets do you have in this

house?” Alex asked.

“Not enough.” Smithers nodded at a third
screen. Four more men had joined the oth-
ers, coming around the side of the building,
bringing the total to ten. They were spread-
ing out, surrounding the house like an invad-
ing army.

“What time did we say your plane was?”

Smithers asked.
“Three thirty.”
The men were getting closer.
“Then we’d better get a move on. We don’t

want you to be late.”

Smithers was still holding the remote con-

trol device, and Alex wondered what else it
could do. The collapsing doormat had been
simple but effective, and at least it had re-
duced the odds by one. But there were a lot
of determined-looking men crossing the

432/667

front garden, approaching the front
door—and as far as Alex could see, that was
the only way out. The attackers were all
armed and they were taking no chances,
moving carefully one step at a time, as if they
were in a minefield. Smithers looked from
one TV screen to the next. Alex had never
seen him like this before. Like so many fat
men, he had always seemed carefree and
jolly. But right now, as he timed his next
move, he was deadly.

One of the screens showed the pair of

stone lions. Two men were passing between
them, each one clutching a nasty-looking
snub-nosed miniature machine gun, and
Alex wondered if they really dared use them
here, in the middle of a city that was always
on the alert against terrorism. But there
could be no doubting the determination in
their eyes and in their very body language.
They had come here for the kill. By the time
the police arrived, they would be far away.

433/667

Smithers waited for the exact moment,

then hit the next button. The two men par-
tially disappeared in a cloud of white dust
that sprayed out of the lions’ mouths. They
were still there when it cleared, gazing at
each other, wondering what had just
happened. Alex had no idea either. He
glanced at Smithers, who said nothing. Then
one of the men threw away his gun and
began to roll on the grass. A second later, the
other did exactly the same. They were like
small children, writhing on their backs, kick-
ing their legs, and screaming. They had com-
pletely forgotten where they were or why
they had come here.

“Itching powder,” Smithers muttered.

“Super-strength. It was actually developed in
the last war, but I’ve made a few improve-
ments. To be honest with you, I’ve been itch-
ing to try it!”

The others had seen what had happened

and looked at the two men, still rolling

434/667

helplessly, in disbelief. Somebody shouted a
command and they advanced on the house,
colder and more angry than ever. Alex could
see eight of them spread over the TV screens.
He glanced at the door. Would it be strong
enough to hold them back?

As if to answer the question, that was

when they opened fire. Their weapons had
been silenced, but even so, the sound of the
bullets slamming into the walls, the win-
dows, and the front door was deafening. It
was like being inside a tin box in a hailstorm
and Alex flinched despite himself. But the
door didn’t so much as splinter. The win-
dowpanes didn’t crack.

“The door’s armor plated!” Smithers

shouted out. “And the windows are bullet-
proof glass. They’re not going to shoot their
way in.”

“Can they cut their way in?” Alex asked.
“Yes. But they’d need—”

435/667

Smithers stopped. Alex had already seen it
on the screens. Two of the men had run for-
ward, both wearing body armor, their heads
protected by welding masks. They carried
with them an oxyacetylene torch with a cut-
ting head capable of reaching temperatures
up to 3500˚C. While the others fell back, the
team knelt in front of the door, and a mo-
ment later there was a burst of harsh blue
flame as they fired up the torch. Almost at
once, Alex smelled burning. The inside of the
door began to change color as it was attacked
by the fierce heat, and a moment later a tiny
tongue of flame burst through and began to
move, curving around the handle and the
lock.

“Well, they’re certainly well prepared,”

Smithers muttered. He sounded more irrit-
ated than afraid.

“Can you hold them off?” Alex asked.
“Unfortunately not. This is only a grade-

three safe house. Now, if we were in

436/667

Jerusalem or Baghdad, that would be a dif-
ferent matter.”

Alex caught sight of a man swinging his

arm. He was halfway down the garden, cap-
tured on one of the screens. For a crazy mo-
ment, Alex thought he was playing catch . . .
then he understood. It wasn’t a ball. It was a
grenade. It hit the roof and exploded. The
whole house shook, sending the chandelier
into a furious, jingling dance. Dust and
broken plaster rained down and smoke bil-
lowed down the main staircase. Meanwhile,
the oxyacetylene torch was making steady
progress. The hissing flame had already
moved a quarter of the way around the lock.
“I think we’re going to have to make a run

for it,” Smithers said.

“Run?” It wasn’t a word that Alex would
ever have associated with Smithers. A fast
waddle would surely be the best he could
manage. And anyway, how were they going
to get out?

437/667

“There’s a back way.” Smithers must have

known what he was thinking. “Don’t you
worry about me,” he added. “The main thing
is that you not get hurt.” He searched out an-
other button on the remote control. Outside,
the fountains stopped, and even as the last
drops of water splashed down, they released
a cloud of yellow smoke instead. The gun-
men began to stagger across the lawn, cover-
ing their eyes and coughing. “Tear gas!”
Smithers explained. “Shame this isn’t Eng-
land or I could have had them with my ex-
ploding gnomes.”

Despite the defenses, the men had almost

cut through the front door. The circle of
burned-out metal was nearly complete.
Smithers hurried back through the hall and
into the kitchen and to Alex’s astonishment
headed straight for the fridge. Surely this
wasn’t the time for a snack! But when Smith-
ers threw open the door, the food and the
shelves had disappeared. Instead there was a

438/667

stainless steel tunnel leading straight to the
street. Behind them, Alex heard the front
door crash open.

“After you!” Smithers cried.
Alex went first. It was a tight squeeze for

Smithers, but he followed right behind and a
few seconds later they were out in the street.
Smithers still had the remote control. He
pressed one last button and began to move
away as fast as his legs would take him.

There was an explosion inside the house.

Then another. Alex heard the screams of
some of the men and wondered what exactly
had blown up. The sofas? The toilet? With
Smithers it could be anything.

It seemed to Alex that their best plan

would be to disappear as quickly as possible
into the crowd before reinforcements ar-
rived—but that wasn’t going to be easy. For a
start, the streets were too quiet. And anyway
they had already been spotted. Alex heard a
van screech to a halt. The back doors were

439/667

thrown open and five more men came bund-
ling out. Alex didn’t have time to see if they
were armed too . . . nor did he have to look.
There was a gunshot and a bullet spat into
the brickwork close to his head. A few chil-
dren had been playing soccer but they
scattered instantly. An old man with a don-
key and cart stood trembling with wide eyes,
unsure what to do. Alex could hear the sirens
of approaching police cars. They must have
been alerted by the first grenade. But it was
impossible to tell how near they were or, giv-
en the Cairo traffic, how quickly they might
arrive.

Alex and Smithers ran around a corner,

past the entrance to a mosque, and down an
alleyway with fresh laundry hanging on lines
above their heads. It was close to midday.
The sun was directly overhead and the heat
was fearsome. Alex wondered how far Smith-
ers would be able to run before his heart
gave out. But he was already determined. No

440/667

matter what happened, he wasn’t going to
leave the gadget master behind.

Smithers reached the end of the alley and
came to a breathless halt, glancing left and
right as he weighed up his options. “The
souk!” he gasped. “We can lose them in the
souk.”

“Who are they?” Alex demanded.
“Scorpia,” Smithers replied, and the single

word told Alex everything he needed to
know. Nobody else would have dared mount
an armed assault in the middle of a highly
populated Middle Eastern city. Nobody else
was more determined to see him dead. From
the very start, even when he had been at-
tacked at Brookland, he had been aware of
something unseen, some old enemy stealing
out of his past. Well, now he knew. Part of
him was grateful to Smithers for telling him
the truth. But he was also angry. Blunt must
have known that Scorpia was active in Egypt.
Yet even so, he had sent Alex here like some

441/667

sort of sacrificial lamb, forcing them to make
their move.

For just a brief pause, Alex and Smithers

were alone. Alex guessed that the Scorpia
agents had decided to regroup. They would
be waiting to see if any survivors came out of
the house.

“Did you tell anyone you were coming to

see me?” Smithers asked.

“No. Only Jack.”
“Were you followed?”
“No. I don’t think so.”
“Then they didn’t know you were coming.
It’s just bad luck you were with me. I’m the
one that they’re after.”

A figure appeared at the top of the alley-
way. Alex and Smithers set off again, cross-
ing a courtyard of debris, past a couple of
shops with interiors so dark it was im-
possible to see what they actually sold. The
main road was in front of them, divided in
half by ugly concrete pillars supporting a

442/667

second road overhead. The traffic had be-
come a solid, unmoving wall—in fact, the ex-
plosions and the approaching police must
have brought the entire city to a halt. There
were people streaming past in every direc-
tion. The sidewalks simply weren’t wide
enough to contain them, and much of the
available space was taken up by Egyptians
with stalls selling sandals, cigarette lighters,
scarves, souvenirs . . . each one managing to
block the way ahead.

Smithers pointed. A metal footbridge led

above the chaos, up and over to the other
side. Alex could feel the sweat pouring off
him. The clothes he was wearing were for
England. He certainly hadn’t expected to run
in them. He didn’t look back. Somehow he
had the idea that if he managed to cross to
the other side he might be safe.

It wasn’t the case. Halfway across the

bridge, Smithers stopped to catch his breath.
Alex turned and saw the five men from the

443/667

van appear at the side of the road. There
were two or three more behind them . . . the
survivors from Smithers’s safe house. He and
Smithers were in plain sight—but surely even
Scorpia wouldn’t take them out in front of so
many witnesses. He shouldn’t even have
framed the question. A hail of bullets hit the
metal side of the bridge, and as Alex dived
for cover, they ricocheted all around. Re-
markably, in all the noise and the confusion,
nobody seemed to hear the shots. The two of
them could have been killed without anyone
even noticing.

Alex caught Smithers’s eye. The big man
was crouching uncomfortably beside him.
“Can you call for help?” he asked.

“I’m afraid not, old bean.”
“You must have more gadgets!”
“Just one!” Smithers checked the way was
clear, then stood up again and ran forward.
Alex had no choice but to follow—across the
bridge and down the other side.

444/667

Behind them, the five Scorpia agents were

already clambering up the first steps, de-
termined to follow them into the souk.

For that was where they were now. Alex
had plunged into a series of courtyards and
alleyways so densely packed together that it
was hard to say if he was inside or out. The
Khan el-Khalili souk was the biggest in
Cairo, a twisting labyrinth of tiny shops con-
nected by steps, arches, and passages, with
all manner of goods piled high on shelves,
dangling from walls, and spilling out onto
the street. Alex and Jack had already been
there and had found the experience almost
too much.

“You want gold? I make you good price.”
“Please—come in, my friend. No need to

buy!”

“You English? Jolly good chap!”
Every shop had its own hawker trying to
draw them in. And every hawker seemed to
be selling the same thing: the same earrings,

445/667

rugs, spices, decorated boxes, and incense
sticks that Alex had already seen in the
House of Gold and that were sold by every-
one else. Everything here was somehow de-
sirable. There was nothing that anyone really
needed.

And now they were back in the middle of it

with at least eight armed men less than a
minute behind them.

“This way!” Smithers commanded.
He had already lurched down a corridor

that specialized in sheeshas, the slender
glass pipes that many Egyptians used to
smoke fruit-flavored tobacco over bubbling
water. As he went, his arm or leg must have
knocked into one. The result was a domino
effect. Pipe after pipe toppled into the next
with a terrible smashing of glass and the out-
raged howls of the hawkers. Alex felt
someone reach out and try to grab them. He
wrenched himself free and kept going.

446/667

They passed through a soaring archway,

part of a stone tower that might have housed
a princess out of an ancient fable. There were
thick pillars and narrow, barred windows.
The archway led into a square filled with
stalls and shops on all sides. The tourists
were already evacuating the area. It was ob-
vious that something was going on. They
were surrounded by police cars. There were
sirens howling in the air. And people were
running! Nobody ever ran in the souk. The
whole point of life there was to take it slowly.
By the time Alex and Smithers stumbled to a
halt, taking in their options, they were al-
most alone. Only the astonished shopkeepers
gazed at them from behind half-open doors,
wondering what was going to happen next.
There were three ways out of the square,

but Alex saw at once that they were blocked.
Yet more Scorpia men had been brought in,
and this group had somehow second-guessed
them. They were closing in from every

447/667

direction. At least these new arrivals didn’t
seem to have guns. But they were carrying
knives with long, vicious blades and they
were ready to use them. Alex and Smithers
were unarmed apart from the one gadget he
had mentioned and that might be anything.
What next?

“Mr. Smithers!” Alex called out the warn-

ing as one of the men raised his knife and
moved in for the kill. At the same time, Alex
ducked sideways and grabbed a brass pyram-
id, one of thousands on sale in the souk. It
made an ugly souvenir—but it was heavy,
with a lethal point, and that made it a useful
weapon. Alex hurled it with all his strength,
watching with satisfaction as it sailed over
Smithers’s shoulder and hit the knife man in
the center of his forehead. The man went
down like a stone, dropping his knife. Smith-
ers snatched it up, spun it in his hand, and
threw it across the square. Alex looked
around. A man had appeared just behind

448/667

him, carrying a machine gun. The knife
turned in the air, then buried itself in his
chest. As the man fell back, his trigger finger
tightened and suddenly he was spraying the
air with bullets. About a dozen glass lamps
exploded. Brass plates were blown off their
hooks, falling with a great clatter. The win-
dows of a silver shop shattered. Then it was
over—but the silence after the last bullet was
immediately broken by more sirens, frantic
shouting, the panic of people trying to get
away.

There were still two more knife men. Be-

fore he could react, Alex was seized from be-
hind. He felt himself being dragged away and
tried to struggle—but the man was too strong
for him. He writhed helplessly, expecting to
feel the point of the knife slide into his back
at any moment. He wondered why it hadn’t
happened already. Out of the corner of his
eye, he saw the other knife man close in on
Smithers, who was standing in front of him,

449/667

his great chest rising and falling as he caught
his breath.

Alex had to break free. As he was pulled
back, he passed a spice shop with sacks of
powder and leaves piled up outside. He knew
at once what he had to do. His hand shot out
and scooped up as much brown powder as it
could hold. Then he twisted around and
flung it into the man’s face. It was chili
powder. The man screamed as it invaded his
eyes and nostrils. He couldn’t breathe. He
was blind. Alex felt the man release him. He
pulled free, then turned around and lashed
out with a side kick—the yoko geri he had
been taught at karate, his foot powering into
the man’s solar plexus. The man was thrown
back into a counter filled with silver jewelry.
He smashed through the glass, his head and
shoulders disappearing. His legs twitched for
a moment, then became still.

Alex wanted to rest, but he could see the

last knife man closing in on Smithers on the

450/667

other side of the square. The man was smil-
ing, perfectly balanced on the balls of his
feet, about to strike. Alex looked around him
for another weapon. There were none—but
then he noticed one of the brass plates that
had been shot off its hook. He picked it up
and threw it in a single movement. Uncon-
sciously, he was back on the beach—with
Tom Harris, with Sabina—playing Frisbee.
The plate was heavier, but it was exactly the
same shape, and its aerodynamics were more
or less the same. It was a perfect throw. The
plate sailed across the square, curving
slightly, then crashed into the side of the
knife man’s neck. Alex saw his eyes go white
and his legs crumple. He collapsed, leaving
Alex and Smithers facing each other, alone.
Smithers seemed amused by the whole af-
fair. “Well done, Alex,” he crowed. “I always
wanted to see you in action and you really
are as good as they say!”

451/667

“I think we have to get out of here, Mr.

Smithers,” Alex panted. They had taken out
four of the men but he knew there were
plenty more.

“Quite right. It’s time I disappeared.”
“What?”
“No time to argue. It’s me they’re after.
That much is obvious. Heaven knows why.
Mr. Blunt will find out. The important thing
is for you to get on that plane and get home.”
“But what about you?” Alex couldn’t keep

a note of dismay out of his voice. Smithers
would be easy to spot wherever he went. It
wasn’t just his clothes. It was his bald head,
his size.

“They won’t be able to find me if they don’t

know what they’re looking for,” Smithers
replied. He reached down between his legs.
“This may come as a bit of a shock, Alex, old
chap.”

For a moment, Alex thought that Smithers

was about to unzip his trousers. He was

452/667

certainly unzipping something. As he
straightened up, there was a tearing sound
and the waistband of his trousers divided in-
to two. His shirt did the same . . . and to
Alex’s horror he saw that Smithers’s bulging
stomach was also splitting in half. It was like
a snake shedding its skin. The brightly
colored shirt and the plump, oversized arms
fell aside as a second pair of arms, lean and
suntanned, appeared from inside, pushing
their way out. The shoulders rolled away and
finally the bald head with its round cheeks
and several chins crumpled and fell back as a
younger head emerged, and Alex saw what
should have been obvious from the start.
A fat suit! That was Smithers’s last and

most brilliant gadget—and he had been
wearing it from the day the two of them had
met. The real Smithers was actually thin and
wiry and about ten years younger—in his late
thirties, with short brown hair and blue eyes.
He was looking at Alex with a mischievous

453/667

smile, and when he spoke again, even his
public-school accent had gone. It seemed
that he was actually Irish.

“I never meant to deceive you, Alex,” he
explained. “I developed the Smithers dis-
guise for work in the field, but somehow I got
used to it. It was like my office suit . . . you
know?” Quickly, he tucked the rubber and
latex body behind one of the stalls. He was
now wearing scruffy jeans and a T-shirt. For
his part, Alex was too astonished to speak. “I
don’t feel comfortable taking it off now, if
you want the truth. I feel as if I’m exposing
myself. But needs must . . . if I’m going to get
out of this place alive. No time to worry
about it now. We’d better go different direc-
tions. Get home to Jack. Give her my best
wishes. Try not to mention this if you can
help it.”

And then Smithers was walking briskly

away. Alex watched him climb down a flight
of stairs and turn a corner, and then he was

454/667

gone. He was reminded of an advertisement
he had once seen in a newspaper . . . for diet
pills. What had it said? “Inside every fat man
there’s a thin man trying to get out.” Well,
he’d just witnessed a vivid demonstration of
that—although if he hadn’t seen it with his
own eyes, he wouldn’t have believed it.

He retraced his steps, putting as much dis-
tance between himself and the square as pos-
sible. Smithers might be wrong. The Scorpia
people could still be looking for him. As he
hurried away, a group of white-suited tourist
police ran past him. The House of Gold yes-
terday and now this! Cairo must be wonder-
ing what had hit it. All the shops had locked
their doors. Alex joined a crowd of
frightened tourists and followed them as
they made their way out of the souk.

Somehow he managed to find his way back

to the bridge that he and Smithers had
crossed. He tried to hail a cab, but he real-
ized at once that he didn’t have a hope. They

455/667

had all been taken by people wanting to get
back to their hotels, and anyway the police
must have set up roadblocks everywhere.
Nothing was moving.

He looked at his watch. Almost half past
twelve. He still had plenty of time to make
the plane. Jack had given him her own mo-
bile phone and he used it to call her at the
apartment. There was no answer. That was
odd. Maybe he had misdialed. Jack had def-
initely told him she would wait for his call.
He called again and allowed the phone to
ring ten times, but there was still no answer.
Where was she?

Suddenly, Alex had a bad feeling. Jack

wouldn’t have left the apartment. She might
have heard that there’d been a further dis-
turbance in Cairo, but she wouldn’t have
come out looking for him. So if she wasn’t
answering the phone, where was she?

Alex was on his own. Smithers had gone

and he had no one else to call. Pushing

456/667

through the crowds in the lingering heat of
the afternoon, he hurried away from the
souk, following the main road back into the
center of the city, searching for a taxi or a
bus or anything that would give him a lift,
knowing with a sense of dread that he had to
get home.

17

CITY OF THE DEAD

ALEX FINALLY MANAGED TO FLAG down
a cab in the Opera Square—an open space
full of modern shops and ugly offices, cut in
half by an overpass. It still took him an hour
to get back to Golden Palm Heights, and half
the time he found himself motionless, sweat-
ing on the backseat, surrounded by traffic.
He rang the apartment three more times.
There was still no answer and he had to
clamp down on his imagination, trying not to
think the worst. But the fact was that if Jack
had had to go out, if there had been some
problem with the school or with the air tick-
ets, she would have called him first. There
was something terrible about the silence and

458/667

Alex clutched the mobile until his hand was
aching, hoping against hope that it would
ring.

He was also worried about Smithers. It

still made his head spin to think of the young
Irishman who had stepped out of the fat suit.
His work clothes, that was what he had said,
but it must have taken a bizarre frame of
mind to get rigged up like that every day. It
just went to show that you couldn’t trust any-
one or anything that belonged to the world of
espionage.

As he sat in the back of the cab, waiting for
a traffic light that seemed to be stuck deliber-
ately on red, Alex cursed Alan Blunt and
Mrs. Jones—and himself for listening to
them. They had set him up against Scorpia
without even telling him. And Alex was abso-
lutely certain now that whatever was going
on in Egypt had nothing to do with the Cairo
International College of Arts and Education.
It was as if he had been lured there

459/667

deliberately, part of the evil jigsaw puzzle
that Scorpia was putting together. Well, to
hell with all of them. Alex just wanted to find
Jack. It was time to get out.

After what seemed like an eternity, the taxi
turned into the compound—silent and empty
now as it was still a few hours before the end
of school. Alex gave the driver a handful of
bills without even bothering to count them,
got out of the car and ran into the apartment.
The front door was open. Was that a good
sign or a bad one?

“Jack!” He called out her name, standing

in the middle of the living room. Despite
everything, he had still hoped she would be
here and he was disappointed by the silence,
by the knowledge that he was alone. He
could see that she had been packing. There
were two suitcases open on the floor, both of
them full. The few books and bits and pieces
that they had brought from England were
neatly stacked beside them along with some

460/667

cash and their passports. There was a half-
finished glass of Coke on the kitchen table.
Alex examined it. The ice had melted and the
liquid was lukewarm. She had been here. She
had been getting ready to leave. Something
or someone had disturbed her.

Then Alex saw the letter pinned to the
bedroom door. A white envelope with his
own name written on it. His first thought
was that it wasn’t Jack’s handwriting. There
was already a hollow pit in his stomach as he
took it down and opened it. What he read
made it worse.

We have Jack Starbright. If you want
to see her again, come to the City of the
Dead at 3:00p.m. this afternoon.The
Tomb of the Broken Moon. Do not be
late. Do not speak to anyone. If you call
MI6, she will die. If you contact the
school, she will die. If you are not alone,
she will die. We are watching you now.
We are listening. Obey these

instructions or you will never see your
friend again.

461/667

Alex felt physically sick. The marble floor
seemed to be shifting beneath his feet. Three
o’clock! He looked at his watch. It was
already after two. They had left him hardly
any time . . . presumably on purpose. Despite
that, he forced himself to slow down, to think
this through. The wrong decision now could
kill them both.

He knew about the City of the Dead. They
had actually been talking about it at school
only a few days before. It was a vast cemetery
in the north of the city, not far from the Cit-
adel. The Tomb of the Broken Moon? He
could find that when he got there. But should
he go there at all? If he allowed himself to be
captured, he would be no use to Jack. They
might simply kill him then and there. After
all, this was Scorpia he was talking about,
and he had given them more than enough
reason.

462/667

But that didn’t make sense. If they wanted
him dead, that would have been easy enough
to arrange. They could have had someone
waiting with a gun in the apartment. They
needed him for some reason—perhaps the
same reason that had drawn him to Cairo in
the first place. This wasn’t about Cairo Col-
lege. It was about him. If he walked into their
trap, who could say what the consequences
might be? But if he didn’t, Jack would die.
He could get a message to Smithers. He

still had the electronic notepad. But it wasn’t
worth the risk. First of all, Smithers had been
forced to abandon his home and might not
even have access to his computer. And any-
way, Scorpia might be able to intercept the
message. He could ring England. He could
leave some sort of written message here. But
Alex had no doubt that the apartment would
be thoroughly searched. It was probably
bugged even now. The note had made it

463/667

perfectly clear what would happen if he tried
to disobey the instructions.

It took him about fifteen seconds to run
through all the options and to come to the
only possible conclusion. He had to do what
he was told. He had to deliver himself into
Scorpia’s hands and hope that some sort of
opportunity would arise further down the
line. The one thing he wouldn’t do was put
Jack’s life at risk. He remembered how she
had insisted on coming with him on this trip.
How he wished now that he had persuaded
her to stay behind.

He was already out the door and back

down the stairs—and at least there was one
piece of luck. The taxi that had brought him
from Cairo was still parked outside, the
driver talking on his mobile phone. Alex had
snatched up another handful of cash before
he left, and he banged a fist on the window,
showing it to the driver.

“The City of the Dead,” he instructed. “Can

464/667

you take me there?”

The driver nodded.
“Do you know a place called the Tomb of

the Broken Moon?”

The driver’s eyes were still fixed on the

money. “I know it.”

“You can have all this if you get me there

in half an hour.”

The driver must have had enough English
to understand, because Alex had no sooner
got in than they were away with the back
tires spinning and spitting up dust. He gazed
out of the window, trying to assemble his
thoughts. Why did they want him to come to
a cemetery? Was there something ominous
about the choice? Perhaps he should try call-
ing someone after all, using Jack’s mobile.
But that was too dangerous. It was always
possible that Scorpia agents were following
in another car. And the iPhone itself could be
bugged.

465/667

The City of the Dead, also known as the

Northern Cemetery, lay sprawled out next to
the Salah Salem Highway with lanes of
traffic roaring past continuously, filling the
air with fumes of burned rubber and gas. It
really was a city in itself, dusty and crum-
bling, hammered by the sun. Ever since the
fourteenth century, the Egyptians had
brought their dead here, building not just
tombs but miniature complexes with
mosques, mausoleums, and even living
rooms for relatives who happened to visit.
The wealthier the family, the more elaborate
the complex, with high brick walls and
arched doorways leading into courtyards
that really could be someone’s home. Indeed,
a lot of the poorer people of Cairo had seen
an opportunity and had actually moved in so
that many of the buildings were now occu-
pied with TV screens flickering behind win-
dows, television antennas on the roofs, and
laundry hanging on lines that stretched over

466/667

the graves. There were even a few bars and
supermarkets with cans and bottles spread
out on wooden shelves that might once have
held dead bodies.

The taxi slowed down once they entered

the cemetery. It was impossible to speed
through the narrow, twisting streets. The
driver seemed to be looking for something
and suddenly drew in, stopping beside a
wooden door. Alex saw a
name—TORUN—written in Arabic and Eng-
lish characters on a plaque. Was this the
place? The driver pointed and he looked up.
There was a dome and a minaret surmoun-
ted with a crescent moon that someone had
shot at. The bullet had snapped off one end.
The moon was a Turkish symbol. Torun
could well be a Turkish name too. Had a
Turkish family moved to Cairo, died in Cairo,
and decided to be buried in Cairo? At least
Alex could be fairly sure that he was in the
right place.

467/667

He gave the driver all his money. With his

nerves tingling, he got out of the car and
went through the door. He heard the taxi
pull away behind him and knew that he was
on his own. He looked at his watch. It was
five to three. He had completed his part of
the bargain. He wondered what would hap-
pen next.

Alex was surrounded by three walls. The
fourth had crumbled away, revealing more
tombs scattered haphazardly and a few
shrubs and trees. No squatters seemed to
have moved into this part of the cemetery
and Alex was quite alone. He felt trapped,
hemmed in on all sides. As far as he could
tell, the City of the Dead stretched out for at
least a mile, and at this time of the after-
noon, in the full heat of the sun, there would
be few tourists or visitors.

He heard footsteps. Somebody was ap-

proaching. Alex drew himself up, his whole

468/667

body tensed, not sure what to expect. A fig-
ure appeared.

Alex stood where he was, completely

shocked, as he watched himself walk
between the graves.

It was him. The boy had his face, his

hair—cut in exactly the same style. He was
even dressed similarly, as if he had deliber-
ately checked out what Alex was wearing.
The only thing that was different was the
cruelty in his eyes. Alex had never smiled like
that, with such a degree of malevolence. And
suddenly he knew who it was . . . who it had
to be.

Julius Grief stopped. “Surprised?” he

asked.

Alex didn’t speak. He was angry with him-

self. He remembered the face he had
glimpsed in the window as he left school. He
should have recognized him then. And the
photograph he had seen in Gunter’s desk. At
the time it had puzzled him . . . when had it

469/667

been taken? But the answer was simple. It
hadn’t actually been a photograph of him.
“Do you know who I am?” Grief asked.
Alex nodded. “Where’s Jack?” he

demanded.

“You don’t ask questions,” Grief replied.

He was obviously relishing this. He couldn’t
contain his glee. “From now on, you do ex-
actly as you’re told or she gets killed. Do you
understand that? We’re going on a little jour-
ney together, you and me. And if you cause
me any trouble, she’s the one who’ll pay.”

“I’m not going anywhere until I’ve spoken

to her,” Alex said.

Grief’s face darkened. “I don’t think you
understand how this works. You’re nothing
now, Alex Rider. You’re not special. You’re
not a superspy. You have no idea what’s
coming your way. I’m in charge. I’m the one
who says what you do.” Suddenly, as if chan-
ging his mind, he took out a mobile, pressed
the redial, and spoke a few words. “All right,”

470/667

he went on. “You can talk to Jack. But only if
you ask me nicely. You have to say please.”

“Please, may I speak to Jack?” Alex meas-

ured out the words.

“Get on your knees.”
Grief was taunting him with the phone. He
was behaving like any school-yard bully. But
Alex had to know if Jack was alive. He knelt
down in the dust. Grief nodded, pleased with
himself. He stepped forward, towering over
Alex, and handed him the phone.

“Jack?” Alex muttered the single word.
“Alex—don’t do anything they say. Get

help.” It was definitely Jack’s voice. But then
the phone was snatched away at her end. The
line went dead.

“Satisfied?” Grief held out his hand for the
phone. Alex handed it back. He was already
wondering how the boy had escaped from
wherever MI6 had sent him. What was his
part in all this? And did anyone know he was
free? One thing was already certain. He was

471/667

quite mad, worse even than he had been the
last time they’d met, on the roof at Brook-
land. “From now on, you call me ‘sir,’” Grief
continued. “And you speak to me only when
you’re spoken to. Do you understand?”

“Yes.”
The telephone slammed into the side of

Alex’s head, almost throwing him off his
knees. He swayed and reached out to steady
himself against a tomb. “Do you
understand?”

“Yes, sir.” Grief held all the cards. There

was no point fighting with him yet.

“That’s good. Now get up and start mov-
ing. We’ve got a car waiting for us nearby.”

Grief gestured. Alex got up. The side of his

head was pounding. He wondered briefly
what would happen if he took Grief out here
and now. It would be easy enough. Twist
around, a side kick to the stomach. But they
still had Jack. Until she was safe, there was
nothing he could do.

472/667

They made their way back through the

cemetery. Alex knew this was bad . . . worse
than anything that had ever happened to
him. Scorpia had its own agenda, still un-
known to him. But Grief clearly had just one
thing on his mind. He wanted revenge and
he was going to make him suffer. Alex
walked slowly, trying to ignore the pain in
his head. He wouldn’t give up. His chance
would come. He just had to make sure he
didn’t miss it.

There was a black limousine waiting not

far from where the taxi had dropped him off
and, standing beside it, a man whom Alex
knew. Erik Gunter was waiting, the sun re-
flecting off his forehead, his eyes dark and
watchful. He was dressed in the same suit
and tie that he wore every day at Cairo Col-
lege; presumably he had left school early
today to be here. The only difference was
that there was a gun in his hand, but Julius

473/667

nodded at him and he tucked it away, seeing
that the situation was under control.

“Hello, Tanner,” he said jovially. “Or

maybe I should call you by your real name
now. Rider! It looks like you’ve reached the
end of the line.”

“So have you,” Alex replied. “MI6 has a file

on you. You may have been a war hero in
Afghanistan, but they know you’ve switched
sides and that you’re working for Scorpia.
When this is over, they’ll come looking for
you. And they’ll find you. There’s nowhere in
the world you’ll be able to hide.”

Gunter smiled, but his eyes were troubled.
“Maybe I’ll have to change my face,” he said.
“Like Julius.”

Julius! So that was his name. It was the

first time Alex had heard it.

Gunter glanced at the red welt on the side

of Alex’s head, then at the other boy. He
scowled. “You weren’t supposed to mark
him,” he said.

474/667

“He was rude to me.”
“Razim won’t be pleased.”
Alex filed the information away. It might

be useful later. Who was Razim? Presumably
the man in charge. For some reason he
needed Alex not just alive but unhurt. That
might be helpful.

Gunter went over to the car and opened

the trunk. He leaned in, and when he
straightened up, he was holding a sophistic-
ated weapon, a sniper rifle, complete with
scope. Alex remembered the golf bag that he
had seen at the House of Gold. He had no
doubt that this weapon must have been in-
side. At some time Gunter had slipped a
glove onto his right hand. He was holding
the rifle by the barrel, taking care not to
leave fingerprints.

“Before we go, I want you to take this,” he
said. “And don’t get any funny ideas. It’s not
loaded.”

“What do you want me to do with it?”

475/667

He had no sooner spoken the words than
he felt a sharp jab in the ribs. He had been
hit, hard, from behind. “You don’t ask ques-
tions. You just do as you’re told,” Julius said.

Alex took the gun. It was heavier than he
had expected. He held it awkwardly, unsure
what was expected.

“Aim it at me,” Gunter said. “Go on. I’m

sure you’d love to kill me. Aim it at my
head.”

Alex did as he was told.
“Now pull the trigger.”
Alex hesitated.
“Go on. Do it.”
Alex put his finger around the trigger and

squeezed. There was a click but no explosion.
As Gunter had said, the gun wasn’t loaded.

“I bet that felt good,” Gunter mocked him.

“Now—hold it there.” He took out a digital
camera and squeezed off a few shots: Alex
and the gun, a brick wall behind him, nobody
else in the picture. “That’s great,” he said.

476/667

“That’ll make a nice addition to the Horse-
man file.” He held out the gloved hand.
“Now, let’s have the gun back, please.”

Alex handed it over. He had a good idea
what was going on here. He also knew that
there was nothing he could do. Gunter put
the rifle back in the trunk, then opened the
car door. “Get in,” he instructed.

“Where are we going?”
“I’d just do what I tell you—unless you

want Julius to hit you again.”

Alex climbed in. Gunter closed the door
and wandered around to the driver’s seat.
Julius Grief sat next to him, a bundle of
scowling, angry energy. Alex guessed that he
was still angry at being told off.

They drove back onto the highway and

about a mile out of Cairo. The sun was just
beginning its downward curve by the time
they turned off, following a rough track to a
patch of wasteland—yet another unfinished
building site. There was a large, old-

477/667

fashioned helicopter waiting there with a pi-
lot already checking the controls. The heli-
copter was a Sikorsky H-34, once popular
with the U.S. Army but no longer in produc-
tion, with an engine mounted at the nose and
a cockpit big enough for a dozen men. It was
much bigger than the machine that Alex had
brought down over the river.

“This is as far as I come,” Gunter said. “I
have to take the gun back where it belongs.
But I’ll be seeing you again the day after to-
morrow, Alex. Enjoy the flight! In fact, if you
want some advice, you should enjoy
everything while you can. You don’t have a
lot of time left.”

Alex got out of the car. Julius Grief pushed
him forward, his hand slamming into Alex’s
back. Alex climbed into the Sikorsky. The
cabin had been constructed to house an en-
tire squadron and it was so spacious that he
could almost have parked a car inside. There
were straps and rigging hanging off the walls

478/667

and the door slid back far enough to allow
parachutists to exit cleanly. Two benches
faced each other across the void. Alex
wondered if Jack had sat on one of them be-
fore him.

Julius had followed him in. “Sit there.” He

pointed at one of the benches.

Alex did as he was told. The blades began
to turn and he heard the whine of the engine
rise up until it overwhelmed him. At last it
was ready. The pilot pulled at the controls
and the helicopter lurched off the ground. It
hovered for a moment, then turned and rose
up, carrying Alex away.

18

HELL IS WAITING

THE SCORPION WAS ABOUT an inch long,
perched on the windowsill as if trying to
catch the first rays of the morning sun. It was
an unpleasant color, a strange sickly yellow
that was almost transparent against the light.
It had barely moved for the last ten minutes,
its tail curving above its head. This one had
to be a baby. The Androctonus australis—or
Egyptian fat-tailed scorpion—can be more
than four inches in length, and a full-grown
adult is one of the deadliest insects in the
world, with a sting that is often fatal.

Alex lay on his bunk, watching it. This was
the second scorpion he had seen since he had
woken up, climbing over the brickwork on

480/667

the other side of the bars—and he guessed
that there must be a nest somewhere below.
Fortunately, neither of them had come any
farther into the cell.

He had only a vague idea where he

was—some sort of ancient fort in the Sahara
desert. The sun had just been setting when
they arrived, touching down on an area of
sand that must have been treated in some
way so that it wasn’t sent spinning into the
rotors. As he had climbed out, the first thing
he had seen was a miniature fort, about two
hundred yards away, that looked like
something out of an old film or perhaps a
Tintin book. There was no other sign of life.
After about a mile, the sand turned silvery
gray, and he realized that he was looking at
the edge of a huge lake. There was something
odd about the water. It looked utterly dead.
The heat was intense, buffeting his face.
He could smell aviation fuel from the heli-
copter. He already knew that even if he

481/667

managed to escape, there would be no way
out. There was simply nowhere to go. Where
was Siwa? That was the name on the bro-
chure that he had found. But if the oasis
town was anywhere around him, it was out of
his sight.

“Get in the jeep, Alex.” Julius Grief had

climbed out of the helicopter and stood be-
side him. “There’s someone waiting to meet
you.”

Alex said nothing but did as he was told.

The jeep had been waiting beside the landing
area with a driver in Bedouin dress and an-
other man with him, carrying a rifle. Alex got
in the back. Julius sat in the front. They star-
ted up and drove the short distance to an
arched entranceway and two massive gates.
As they passed into the fort, the gates swung
shut behind them, meeting with a solid and
conclusive thud.

And now there was activity all around him.

As the jeep slowed down, Alex took it all in:

482/667

Arab guards with machine guns, a radio
tower, satellite dishes, more jeeps,
watchtowers, and spotlights. There was a
man drawing water from the well, another
digging at some sort of salt pile. Overhead, a
rope and wooden walkway stretched from
one side to the other. He counted about a
dozen buildings of different sizes, including
one that looked like a chapel and one that
was more like a doll’s house.
There was no sign of Jack.
“This way,” Julius said.
Alex followed his doppelganger into a

long, narrow building set right next to one of
the walls. He found himself in a cool, empty
space with a fan turning in the ceiling and a
wooden floor. There was a desk and a chair
with a Cairo College uniform neatly folded
and hanging on the back. Two guards, silent
and emotionless, stood waiting for him.

There was a movement at the door and an-

other man strolled in. Before the man had

483/667

even spoken, Alex felt the atmosphere in the
room change. He turned and found himself
facing a short, very slender man with close-
cropped gray hair and round glasses. The
man looked too small and girlish to be dan-
gerous, but Alex knew he must be in charge.
He stopped in front of Alex and examined

him.

“What happened to his face?” he

demanded.

“I hit him,” Julius replied.
“That’s very displeasing, Julius. I specific-

ally asked you not to do that.”

“He annoyed me.”
The man turned to Alex. “Welcome to Si-

wa,” he said. “My name is Razim, and I’ve
been looking forward very much to meeting
you. I have to say, you do have a remarkable
similarity to Julius Grief, a credit to the
artistry of modern plastic surgery. I hope you
didn’t find the journey too stressful.”
“Where is Jack?” Alex demanded.

“She’s here. She’s unhurt—for the time

484/667

being.”

“I want to see her.”
“I’m sure you do, but I’m afraid that won’t

be possible. As a matter of fact, I’m afraid
you have a rather distasteful experience
ahead of you. Believe me when I say that I
take no pleasure in it, but I’m aware that in
the past you have been equipped with certain
ingenious gadgets and I also know that your
Mr. Smithers has been in Cairo. So I’m afraid
you’ll have to be stripped and searched from
head to foot. I won’t actually witness this
myself. I’ll spare your blushes. But I would
advise you to cooperate with my guards or
they will hurt you quite considerably.

“After that, you will take a shower and all

your clothes will be replaced. We have a
school uniform for you there, on the chair.
We don’t want any exploding buttons or any-
thing like that. As you can see, Alex, I am not
a man who makes mistakes. You are now in

my power and will remain so until the end of
your life.”

“That’s not a very long time,” Julius

485/667

muttered.

“That is indeed the case.” Razim sounded
almost sad. “But we can discuss that in the
morning. After the guards have finished with
you, they’ll take you to a cell. You might be
interested to know that we are in an
eighteenth-century French fort, and this
used to be the prison block. You will be given
dinner and then left to sleep. I advise you to
take advantage of it. You’ll need all the rest
you can get.”

Julius smirked. Razim nodded at the

guards, who moved forward.

“Good night, Alex. We will meet again

tomorrow.”

“Sleep well!” Julius crowed.
The two of them left together and then the

guards began their work. Two hours later,
Alex found himself back in school uniform,

486/667

alone in a cell that measured about thirty
feet square with a bunk, a table, and a bucket
for him to use in the night. There was a
single barred window that looked onto the
outer wall with a long shadow stretching out
in the corridor in between. After about
twenty minutes, the door opened and anoth-
er guard came in with a tray holding bread,
soup, and a bottle of water. This was all he
was going to get for the night.

But there was no point in starving himself.

Alex ate the food and drank half the water.
He curled up on the bunk and a short while
later, despite everything, he was asleep.

And now it was the morning, and the scor-

pion, alarmed by something, suddenly
scuttled forward and disappeared over the
windowsill. Alex looked up at the sun. He
guessed it must be around eight o’clock. A
moment later the guard who had brought
Alex’s dinner returned, dressed in baggy
trousers with a scarf around his head. There

487/667

was a machine gun slung across his back. He
signaled with one hand. The message was
clear: Come with me.

Alex was led back out of the cell and down

the passageway to the area where he had
been received the night before. As he went,
he heard a familiar voice.

“Take your hands off me, you creep. Who
do you think you are, anyway? Just because
you’ve got a gun—”

Jack! Alex hurried forward and there she

was, standing in front of the desk, poking her
finger into the chest of a man who was twice
her size. She was dressed in the clothes she
must have been planning to wear for the
flight—pale jeans and a shirt tied around her
waist. Her hair was a bit bedraggled and
there was a tiredness in her eyes, but other-
wise she looked fine.

Ignoring the guard who was right behind

him, Alex ran to her.

“Alex!”

488/667
The two of them embraced. They were sur-
rounded by armed men, but for the moment
all of them were forgotten.

“Are you okay?” Alex asked.
“I’m fine. But I told you. You shouldn’t

have come.”

“I didn’t have any choice, Jack. I couldn’t

just leave you.”

“I know.” She held him close. “Don’t

worry,” she whispered. “I think I’ve found a
way out of here.” Then, louder: “Who are
these people, Alex? What is this place?”

“I don’t know,” Alex replied. “But I think

we’re going to find out.”

“Come. Now.” One of the guards had man-
aged two words of English. He pointed at the
door. Alex and Jack were led out of the pris-
on block.

It was early morning, but the sun was

already hot. Alex and Jack were led past the
main gate and across to the house where
Razim lived. Alex looked around him. He

489/667

had already counted a dozen guards and
there were probably more. This was the
home of someone who liked to feel extremely
secure. Ahead of them, Razim was waiting
for them on a small terrace that he had con-
structed in front of his home. There was a
stone table surrounded by dwarf palms
sprouting out of terra-cotta pots. A stone lion
dribbled water into a basin, the tinkling
sound giving an illusion of cool in the desert
heat. As usual, he was wearing a white dish-
dasha that looked brand-new. He was eating
breakfast: fresh figs, yogurt, pastries, and
tea. There was also a pack of cigar-
ettes—Black Devils—beside him. Alex was
glad to see that the table was set for three. It
seemed that Julius Grief wouldn’t be joining
them.

Seeing them, Razim got to his feet. “Please

join me. I hope you don’t mind my starting
without you. I never sleep after five o’clock
and I’m always rather hungry by the time it

490/667

comes to breakfast. However, there’s plenty
left. Do sit down.”

Jack glanced at Alex as if for advice. Alex

nodded and they took their places.

Razim seemed pleased. He fussed over

them, moving dishes and pouring the tea as
if they were guests who had chanced to pop
in rather than his prisoners. Meanwhile, Alex
looked around him. It was already obvious
that it would be almost impossible to escape
from the fort, and yet, at the same time, he
remembered what Jack had just said. “I
think I’ve found a way out . . .” She’d been
here a little longer than he had. Could she
possibly have seen something that he’d
missed?

“Will you have some tea, Alex?” Razim

held out the pot.

“Thank you.” Alex hated the fake polite-

ness, the pretense that all this was civilized.
He’d been here before. Tea in the garden
with Damian Cray. Dinner with Julia

491/667

Rothman. All these people had to pretend
that they were human. To disguise the fact
that they were anything but.

But Jack wasn’t having any of it. “What do

you want with us?” she demanded. “Alex
ought to be at school. You’ve got no right to
bring him here.”

Razim set down the pot and helped him-
self to a spoonful of yogurt. “Let’s not keep
up the pretense that Alex is an ordinary
schoolboy, Miss Starbright,” he said. “We all
know who he is and what he is. And for that
matter, you really shouldn’t speak to me as if
I am an ordinary man. Of course I have no
right to keep you prisoners here. But I am a
criminal. Why not let us be honest about it?
The law means nothing to me. I do exactly
what I want.”

“What do you want?”
“You’re very direct! Please have some

breakfast. You both need to eat and—partic-
ularly in this heat—to drink.”

492/667

Alex took some fruit. Jack hesitated, then

did the same. A man walked past them push-
ing a wheelbarrow piled high with salt crys-
tals. Whatever work went on here, it never
stopped.

Razim licked his spoon clean. “That’s bet-
ter,” he began. “I’m sure the two of you have
a lot of questions, so let me put your minds
at rest by answering at least a few of them.”
“You don’t need to tell us anything,” Alex
interrupted. “I already know that you’re part
of Scorpia and that you’re planning to assas-
sinate the American secretary of state when
she gives her talk in Cairo this weekend. I
also know where we are. We’re close to the
town of Siwa.” At least some of this was
guesswork, but Alex was pleased to see a
flicker of surprise behind the two circles of
glass. Razim had been thrown and couldn’t
conceal it. “I know this,” he went on, “and
MI6 knows it too. By now they’ll have real-
ized that Jack and I are missing and they’ll

493/667
come looking for us. If you let us go now, you
might have time to save yourself. But other-
wise I’d say you’re pretty much finished.”

There was a long silence. Then Razim

broke into a forced, unnatural laugh. “Well
spoken, Alex,” he said. “My friends at
Scorpia told me you were someone to be
reckoned with and they were certainly right.
I am willing to accept that you have managed
to work out at least part of what we are plan-
ning. You have seen the rifle. It is common
knowledge that the secretary of state will be
here tomorrow. But it is already too late to
prevent us, and I can assure you that you
have no idea at all of our true aims.

“As to the arrival of MI6, which I am in-
clined to doubt, they may find it more diffi-
cult than you think to reach us. This fort was
built more than two hundred years ago, but I
have made certain modifications. We are in
the middle of a minefield. There is what you
might call a necklace of roadside devices,

494/667

similar to those used in Afghanistan, around
the compound. We can activate them the
moment we come under attack . . . There’s a
series of switches in the control room.” He
gestured at the old bake house with its brick
chimney. “You might also like to know that
the towers here are equipped with radar
warning and electronic warfare antennae.
We have enough firepower here to blast an
entire fleet of aircraft out of the sky. The Ira-
nians kindly provided us with several of their
SA2 medium-range, high-altitude surface-to-
air missiles. At a price, of course. But I am a
man who likes to feel safe, and were any en-
emy forces to show themselves—in the air or
on land—I can assure you that it would be a
simple matter to blow them to smithereens.”
He smiled and laid down his spoon, lining

it up exactly with his plate.

“But even if by some miracle MI6 did

manage to find us and break in, they would
still be too late,” he continued. “I am leaving

495/667

Egypt tomorrow night. I have another iden-
tity and another life waiting for me in anoth-
er part of the world. And as for you, Alex . . .
well, that was what I wanted to talk to you
about. That’s why I invited you to join me.”
He paused. Alex glanced at Jack, willing

her to stay quiet, not to endanger herself. He
knew she wasn’t going to like what they were
about to hear.

“I will make no secret of the fact that you

have been a considerable nuisance to my col-
leagues in Scorpia,” he began. “Indeed, one
of the things that attracted them to this oper-
ation was that you were going to be at the
center of it. Speaking personally, I have no
interest in revenge. And I want you to under-
stand that I have no particular feelings about
you. You seem a pleasant enough boy. But
unfortunately for you, you are now com-
pletely in my power and, as it happens, I am
a scientist. Recently, I have been doing a
great deal of research into the subject of

496/667

pain. This evening, when the sun sets, I in-
tend to perform an experiment on you. In ef-
fect, my aim is to cause you more pain than
you have ever known, more pain than you
can begin to imagine.”

“You’re mad . . .,” Jack whispered.
Razim ignored her. “It’s strange, but ima-
gining pain actually makes it worse when it
finally arrives. This is something I have dis-
covered through my research. I notice that
you are clutching a fruit knife, Miss Star-
bright, and perhaps plan to attack me with it.
I can assure you that one of my guards will
shoot you down before you can even rise out
of your chair.”

Jack’s hand had indeed closed around one
of the knives. She was hardly breathing and
her eyes were pin-pricks of fury. Alex
reached out and touched her arm. She put
the knife down.

“Thank you. Now, where was I? Yes. It’s a
bit like entering a swimming pool. The child

497/667

who imagines the cold water, who enters it
one inch at a time, has a much worse experi-
ence than the child who simply runs off the
diving board and jumps in. The dread that
one feels before visiting the dentist is often
as unpleasant as the visit itself. That is why
I’m telling you this now, Alex. I want you to
start thinking about what lies in store for you
tonight. You see that building over there?”
He pointed to what looked like a chapel on
the far side of the compound. “That is where
you will be taken. That is where, for you, hell
is waiting.”

“You can’t do this,” Jack said. “You’re a

monster! Alex is a fifteen-year-old boy!”

“It is because he is fifteen that he is so use-
ful to me. And please don’t bore me with this
stupid name-calling. I have already made it
quite clear to you that Alex Rider is nothing
to me. I am not like Julius, for example, who
hates him very much indeed, who is indeed
consumed by hatred. I have no such

498/667

emotions. For me, hate is as much a waste of
time as love. Alex has been a useful device in
a plan that I have created for Scorpia. To-
night, he will be useful to me. That is all. I
simply want the two of you to prepare.”

Razim pulled the cigarette pack toward

him and opened it. There was one cigarette
left. He took it out and lit it. “You have the
rest of the day to yourselves,” he said. “You
are free to walk in the desert . . . The salt
lakes have a certain beauty, and you may like
to swim. I can lend you both bathing suits.
Do not take this as a sign of weakness on my
part. You have no drinking water and it
would be quite impossible for you to walk the
ten miles to the village of Siwa in the full
heat of the day. And anyway, you will be
watched at all times. As you may have appre-
ciated when you were brought here, Alex, I
have reasons for not wanting to damage you.
But if you stray too far from the fort, if you
attempt to do anything that gives me reason

499/667

to believe that you are trying to escape, I will
not hesitate to put a bullet into your friend.
Do you understand me?”

“I understand you completely,” Alex said.

There was contempt in his voice.

“Good.” He stood up. “I have a few last-

minute preparations to take care of, but
please feel free to have as much breakfast as
you want. Lunch will be served here as well.
The guards will take you back to your cells at
four o’clock—you’ll need to get as much rest
as you can before your experience tonight. I
hope you both enjoy what time is left to you.”
Razim got up and left. Jack waited until he

had gone into the house.

“Oh, Alex . . .,” she began. The words came

out almost as a sob.

“Let’s not talk here,” Alex said. “We might
be overheard.” He looked briefly at the arch-
way and the open door that led out of the
compound. It was still hard to believe that
Razim was just letting them walk out. But

500/667

then again, they were in the middle of the
Sahara—a perfect prison even if it didn’t
have any walls. “He said we could go for a
swim, so let’s do that. No one will be able to
hear us in the middle of a lake.”

In the end, they didn’t swim. Two of the

guards had followed them and stood watch-
ing, twenty paces away. Instead, they walked
along the shoreline of one of the extraordin-
ary lakes that had somehow sprung up in the
middle of the desert, with so much salt in the
water that strange crystal formations were
spreading out across the sand. The fort was
about a quarter of a mile away and reminded
Alex of something he might have built when
he was six or seven years old.

They had both heard what Razim had said.
Neither of them knew quite what to say. Alex
knew that Razim had done this on purpose.
He might pretend to be a scientist. He might
claim to have no feelings. But deep down, he

501/667

was getting some foul pleasure from their
pain.

It was Jack who broke the silence. “What a

bastard! What a little jerk! I won’t let him
hurt you, Alex. I swear to God . . .” Suddenly
there were tears in her eyes and this time she
didn’t try to wipe them away. “I never had
any idea,” she went on. “When you went
away on all those adventures, I knew it was
bad, but I never thought it was like this. How
could we have let this happen to you all this
time? And your uncle actually wanted you to
be a spy? They’re all as bad as each other . . .
Alan Blunt, Mrs. Jones . . . even Mr. Smith-
ers.They should never have allowed it to
happen.”

Alex put an arm around her. “Don’t worry,

Jack,” he said. “I’ll get away.” He forced a
smile. “I always do.”

Jack nodded and used the backs of her

hands to wipe her eyes. “If we could steal one
of the cars . . .”

502/667

“I can’t drive,” Alex reminded her.
“No. But I can.” Her face brightened a
little. “There is just one thing, Alex.” She
looked around, checking that the guards
were far enough away. “Before you arrived, I
was alone in my cell for a time, and there was
something I noticed. The walls are brick, but
the cement is some sort of mixture of salt
and mud. And one of the bars of my window
is a little loose.”

“Can you get it out?”
“I might be able to. Look!” Carefully, she
lifted her shirt to show Alex that there was a
knife tucked into her waistband. “I stole it at
the end of breakfast, after that creep had left.
I can use it to cut into the brick. It’s very soft.
And if I can get the bar out, I can squeeze
through.”

“And then?” Alex felt the first stirrings of

hope.

“Somehow I get you out of your cell and off

we go. When they flew me here, we passed

503/667

over Siwa. I actually saw it, and it can’t be
more than about ten minutes away by car. If
we can get there and raise the alarm . . . We
just have to make one phone call. And that’ll
be the end of Ratface—or whatever he calls
himself. He won’t have time to come after us.
He’ll have to get out fast.”

“What about the car keys?” Alex asked.
“I noticed that too. They leave them in the
cars.” Jack smiled. “You see—they’re not as
smart as they think they are.”

Alex thought about what Jack had just

said. Everything made sense, and yet at the
same time, something worried him. Three
basic errors. The crumbling metal, the car
keys, the knife that had gone missing without
anyone noticing. It seemed almost too good
to be true. On the other hand, Jack could be
right. Razim thought he had all the odds on
his side. That could be making him careless.

504/667

“All right,” Alex said. “But listen to me,

Jack. If you get a chance to leave without me,
that’s what you have to do.”

“I’d never leave you behind,” Jack said.
“You might have to. If it’s a choice between

one of us or neither of us, you’re going to
have to go.” He reached out and held her
hand. “And please watch out for yourself,
Jack. I’ve met people like these before, and
I’m telling you, they know what they’re do-
ing. This is Scorpia we’re talking about.”

“You’ve beaten them twice,” Jack re-

minded him.

Alex nodded. “Let’s hope it’s third time

lucky.”

They spent the rest of the day together, sit-
ting in the shade, talking about anything that
would take their minds off the clock ticking

away, the evening drawing in. Alex tried to
forget what Razim had said.

“. . . more pain than you have ever known

505/667

. . .”

They talked about Brookland, about Sa-

bina, about the apartment in Chelsea . . .
about anything that would fill the silence.
There was no sign of Julius Grief, and Razim
seemed to have disappeared too. Maybe they
were both inside. The sun was blazing down
and there was barely any breeze. But slowly
the light changed. The temperature began to
cool. At half past three a guard appeared
and, in broken English, told them that it was
time to go back to their cells. Neither of them
wanted to show any emotion in front of these
people, so they embraced briefly.

“Good luck,” Alex whispered.
“I’ll come for you. I promise . . .”
They were led their separate ways.
Alex was taken to his cell. Jack’s was

farther down the corridor, on the opposite

506/667

side. Before the doors were locked, Alex was
able to look around him, and he saw, with a
heavy heart, that Razim was being true to his
word. He was taking no chances. A wooden
chair had been placed in the middle of the
corridor and there was already another
guard sitting there. If he heard the slightest
sound, he would raise the alarm.

The two doors slammed shut. The keys

were turned.

Time slowed down. Alex felt every minute
as it lumbered past. He knew that all this was
part of Razim’s plan. He wanted him to think
about what lay ahead, and Alex tried as best
he could to put it out of his mind.

“. . . more pain than you can begin to

imagine . . .”

But of course he couldn’t. What were they

going to do to him? Alex remembered the
scorpions that he had seen that morning.
Maybe that was their plan. No. Stop. Don’t

507/667

even think of it. Don’t let your imagination
do their work for them.

All too quickly, the sun began to set. Why

couldn’t it hover in the sky a little longer?
Why was it suddenly so eager for the end of
day?

Darkness fell. The door swung open and

Julius Grief was there.

He had also changed into a Cairo College
uniform as if determined to mimic Alex to
the bitter end. “It’s time!” he crowed. “I can’t
tell you how much I’m looking forward to
this!”

There were two guards with him, both of

them armed. Alex stood up. He had no
choice. He stepped out into the corridor.
There was no sign of Jack.

With Julius Grief striding ahead, the three

of them led him out.

19

HELL IS HERE

ALEX COULDN’T MOVE.

He was sitting in a high-backed leather

chair, strapped in place by soft cords around
his wrists, his ankles, and his neck. No mat-
ter how much he struggled, they would make
no mark. A series of wires ran down his na-
ked chest. Each one had been carefully posi-
tioned and stuck in place by an unsmiling fe-
male technician in a white coat; she was the
only woman Alex had seen since he had ar-
rived at the fort. There were more wires at-
tached to two of his fingers, his pulse, his
forehead, and the side of his neck.

The air-conditioning had been turned up

high and Alex could feel his own sweat

509/667

chilling against his skin. With its thick,
white-painted walls curving around him, the
room reminded him of an oversized igloo. He
was connected to a variety of machines that
were already measuring everything that was
happening inside him. Out of the corner of
his eye he could see a green dot pulsing
across a screen, and he knew it was record-
ing his heartbeat. The dot was moving very
fast. He tried willing it to slow down, but he
was no longer in control. Alex hated the way
that he had been reduced to nothing more
than a laboratory specimen, but there had
been nothing he could do. They had finished
by wheeling a large TV screen in front of
him, and he had wondered what it was for.
Was Razim going to show him some sort of
horror film? Nothing could be worse than
the horror that was all around him. For the
moment, the television was turned off. The
technician and the guards had withdrawn,
leaving him alone.

510/667

Alex waited to see what would happen

next. He thought about Jack. Even now there
was a part of him that was more scared for
her than for himself. He had been in situ-
ations like this before. A lot of unpleasant
people had threatened him with a lot of un-
pleasant things, but somehow he had always
come through. But this was all new to her.
While he sat here, she would be putting her
plan into operation, trying to escape. He just
hoped she would take care. She had no idea
what she was up against.

Footsteps on the concrete floor. Julius

Grief had returned, this time in the company
of Razim. The boy’s face was flushed with ex-
citement and anticipation, and it made Alex’s
stomach churn to see this grotesque version
of himself capering toward him. Razim had
changed into a pale gray collarless jacket and
trousers that made him look like an upmar-
ket dentist. He was wearing an earpiece with
a wire snaking down behind his shoulder. As

511/667

he stopped in front of the chair, the spot-
lights reflected in his spectacles and his eyes
briefly disappeared behind two blazing
circles of white.

“Are you afraid, Alex?” he asked.
Alex didn’t answer. He didn’t trust himself

to speak.

“Would you like a glass of water before we

begin?”

Still, Alex said nothing.
“A great many people have sat where you

are sitting now,” Razim went on. “I have con-
ducted many experiments in this room, and
one day the world will be grateful for the in-
formation I have gathered. It is very unusual
for me to have a teenager, and in normal cir-
cumstances it would suggest to me many
possibilities.”

He reached out. He was standing next to a

trolley covered with a sheet, and he un-
covered it to reveal a long line of knives and
scalpels, neatly laid out. Alex knew that he

512/667

was doing it purposefully for effect. It was
the act of a bad stage magician in a cheap
theater. He tried not to look at the gleaming
instruments. He already knew that he
couldn’t break free. All he could do was sit
and wait.

“As you can see, there are all sorts of ways

that I could cause you pain, Alex,” Razim
murmured. “My young friend Julius has
ideas of his own. Left to himself, he would, I
am sure, do unspeakable things to you, start-
ing perhaps with your toes and working up.
He would have enjoyed that very much. Un-
fortunately, I cannot allow him to go ahead.
We are both somewhat limited, for reasons
that I won’t go into at the moment. You can-
not be marked in any way. No cuts or
bruises! No bits missing! And so, with regret,
we must say farewell to the knives and the
syringes. There will be no bloodshed
tonight.”

He covered the trolley and pushed it away.

513/667

“However, do not believe for a minute that

this offers you some sort of easy way out. I
have made it my life’s work to study pain in
all its different forms, and the pain that I in-
tend to inflict on you will be perhaps even
worse. There are two instruments that I am
going to use. Earlier today, I promised you
hell. And now, my dear child, it is here.”
He reached down and took hold of two

plastic boxes. Alex recognized one immedi-
ately. It was a remote control, presumably
for the television screen in front of him. The
other was similar, about the size of a mobile
phone, with a single red button mounted in
the center. Razim handed this to Julius, who
took it gratefully, licking his lips and rolling
it in his palm.

Razim tapped his earpiece as if awaiting

instructions. “Are you ready, Alex?” he
asked. “There’s something I want you to see.”

He turned on the TV.

514/667

Jack had begun working on the bar the mo-
ment she had heard Alex being taken from
his cell. As the footsteps faded into the dis-
tance, she felt a black steel mesh of shock
and disbelief slamming down in her mind.
Jack had always thought the best of people.
She had refused to believe that anyone could
be completely heartless and evil. Her break-
fast with Razim had proved her wrong.

She had seen the guard sitting outside in
the corridor and had no idea if he was still
there. She hoped that Razim wouldn’t have
considered her important enough to watch
over while he dealt with Alex. Even so, she
would have to work quietly. And quickly.
What were they going to do to him? How
soon would they start? Jack felt the tears
rising and angrily wiped them away. Crying
wasn’t going to help Alex. She had to get out
of here.

The window looked out onto a strip of
sand and rubble with another building,

515/667

possibly a storehouse, directly opposite.
There were just two vertical bars, solid steel,
set side by side, as if in a cartoon. She had to
remove only one of them and she would have
enough space to squeeze out. And one of
them, as she had discovered, was loose.

The fruit knife that she had stolen from
the breakfast table was small, with a blunt
edge. Even if she had been able to use it to
attack Razim, it was unlikely that she would
have been able to do him much harm. But it
was surprisingly effective against the crum-
bling brickwork that surrounded the bar. She
was using it like a chisel, chipping away,
making sure that the rubble fell into the cell
where nobody could see it. The cement was
very soft, almost like putty. And maybe it
had rained—did it ever rain in the
desert?—because it was damp to the touch.
The bar was already wobbling. Soon she
would be able to pull it free.

516/667

But how soon? Alex had been gone for

about ten minutes and she dreaded to think
what they might be doing to him. It was
worse than that. She had to use all her men-
tal strength not to think about Alex, to put
him out of her mind. Otherwise, she would
be too sick to continue. She was his only
hope. She was going to break out and bring
help. She had come all the way to Egypt to
look after him and she wasn’t going to let
him down.

She had scooped out a lot of the cement,
forming a cavity around the bar. She pulled
and it came free. It happened so suddenly
that she actually dropped it, trying to grab it
with fumbling fingers and only half catching
it as, with a dull clang, it hit the floor. She
froze, terrified that the sound of metal hit-
ting concrete would alert the guard if he was
still sitting outside. She waited a minute, her
heart pounding. Nobody came. The door
didn’t open.

517/667

She pulled herself up and stuck her head

out of the gap she had made.

The cell block was in one corner of the

fort—on the side opposite of Razim’s house.
Leaning out, Jack could just glimpse the
main courtyard with the salt pile that the
guards had collected. The sun was setting
and the sky had gone that strange color
unique to the desert, something between
blue and mauve and washed-out over the ho-
rizon as if recovering from the heat of the
day. There was nobody in sight.

Jack was about to heave herself up, then
had second thoughts and grabbed the metal
bar and looped it through her belt. It was the
only weapon she had and she might need it.
Getting out of the cell wasn’t going to be
easy. The bunk was in the wrong place and
screwed down to the floor. There was no
chair. She had to hoist herself up, using the
muscles in her arms, and then pull her head
and shoulders through the narrow space

518/667

between the remaining bar and the edge of
the window.

Somehow she managed to maneuver her-

self so that she was dangling half outside,
and she twisted around, wincing as the loose
metal bar dug into her stomach. For a mo-
ment she thought she was stuck. Her hips
were the widest part of her body and they re-
fused to pass through. She was almost pre-
pared for the humiliation of being discovered
and dragged back inside. If anyone walked
around the back of the storehouse, they
would be certain to see her. The thought gave
her extra strength. One final squeeze and she
had made it, falling in a tangle of arms and
legs to the ground below.

She landed heavily, winding herself. There
were marks all the way down the side of her
body where she had positioned the bar. For
about five seconds she didn’t move. Surely
someone would have heard her. She had
made so much noise! But perhaps the guards

519/667

were at dinner. Perhaps they were helping to
deal with Alex. Alex . . . what are they doing
to you? I can’t wait. I have to get help.
Nobody came. Jack picked up the bar and
got to her feet. Now all she had to do was
steal a car and drive away.

The main courtyard was about fifteen

paces away, on her right, and this is where
she headed, following the wall of the store-
house. It seemed to her that the shadows
were darker on the other side, away from the
prison block. The courtyard was where the
cars were kept parked. She had seen them
earlier. About halfway along, she came to an
open doorway with a pile of crates and boxes
stacked up around it. There were lights on
inside—it was already night—and she peered
in nervously. It was a kitchen. There was a
fridge, a microwave oven, some cupboards, a
table, and chairs. Maybe this was where the
guards came to eat and relax when they were
off duty. But there was nobody there now.

520/667
She continued to the end, crouching low in
case one of the guards was positioned on the
rope bridge that stretched high up from wall
to wall. The whole fort seemed to be aban-
doned. Her pulse raced. There was a car, a
very old and beaten-up Land Rover, parked
right in front of her. Incredibly, she could
even see the keys in the ignition. Surely it
couldn’t be as easy as this!

It wasn’t. A young, bearded guard was

standing right next to it, leaning on the hood,
smoking a cigarette. There was a rifle slung
over his shoulder. To get the car, she would
have to get past him. Or she could knock him
out with the bar. But she would never be able
to sneak up on him without being heard.
Sound carried too easily in the desert even-
ing, particularly when surrounded by the
great silence of the sands. Somehow she had
to distract him. She had to make him come
to her.

521/667
And quickly. They’re hurting Alex. They’ve

already started.

She remembered the kitchen. It was just a
few steps back and she darted in. She threw
open the fridge and, with a surge of relief,
found what she was looking for: a carton of
eggs. Why should she have remembered this
now? It was the sight of the microwave that
had done it. A failed experiment by a ten-
year-old Alex Rider. How she had yelled at
him at the time! But now she could use it.

She put one of the eggs into the mi-

crowave, swiveled the knob to five minutes
and turned it on. Then she hurried back out-
side and hid behind the boxes. She wondered
if it would have been sensible to have armed
herself with a kitchen knife, but the idea re-
volted her, and anyway, she hadn’t seen one
around. She waited, counting the seconds.
She could imagine the egg turning slowly be-
hind the glass door on its rotating plate. As
Alex had discovered, you can’t cook an egg

522/667

that way. There was a bang as the egg ex-
ploded, showering itself all over the inside of
the microwave.

As she had hoped, the guard had heard the
noise and came running almost immediately.
He stopped at the entrance to the kitchen
and looked inside, wondering what had
happened. That was when Jack tiptoed for-
ward and hit him on the back of the head
with the iron bar, using all her strength. The
man grunted and fell sideways. Jack made
sure he was really unconscious, then turned
and ran for the car.

All sorts of thoughts were going through

her mind. Should she have taken the guard’s
rifle? Could she make her way through the
fort, find Alex, and take him out with her?
No—that would be too dangerous. Right
now, she had the element of surprise, but the
moment she tried to start a fight, Razim
would outnumber her by a factor of about
twenty to one. She hated leaving Alex

523/667

behind, but she remembered what he had
said beside the lake. Better one of them out
than neither of them. The town of Siwa
couldn’t be too far away. She would get there
and come back with reinforcements . . . the
local police, the army, whatever. And the
moment Razim heard the car leaving, as
soon as he had found out what had
happened, he would stop whatever he was
doing and come after her. Alex would be all
right.

She got into the car, closing the door softly

behind her so that it made no sound. There
was nobody guarding the gate. It was open
with the desert and a single track stretching
out beyond. This was somehow all too good
to be true. Would the car start? She turned
the key and the engine purred into life.
Nobody shouted at her. Nobody came
running.

What about the mines? Razim had said

there was a defensive circle all the way

524/667

around the fort. But she remembered his
words. They were turned on only if he be-
lieved he was under attack. She would just
have to hope for the best. There might be
other tire tracks she could follow through the
sand.

Hang on, Alex. Help is on its way.
She pushed the car into first gear and

moved off.

It took the television screen several seconds
to warm up. Alex found himself looking at a
black-and-white image that was so fuzzy, it
could have been shot at night. At first he
didn’t understand what he was seeing. Julius
Grief was leering at him, waiting for him to
work it out. Razim was standing to one side,
resting the remote control in his palm. Alex
thought of closing his eyes, of looking away.

525/667

Whatever these two freaks were trying to
show him, it couldn’t be good. But then he
realized what was happening and knew that
he was trapped, that it was already too late.

There must have been a camera hidden
somewhere high up in Jack’s cell. Jack had
her back to him, but he could see her attack-
ing the bar of the window with the knife she
had taken, cutting into the brickwork. Alex
still didn’t know why they were doing this,
what they wanted. But as he watched her,
Razim began a soft, mocking commentary.
“So it would seem that your friend Miss
Starbright stole a knife from the breakfast
table this morning. That was very bad of her.
But shall I tell you a little secret, Alex? I had
an idea that she might. In fact, I rather
wanted her to. And she didn’t disappoint
me.”

On the screen, Alex saw the bar fall out of

the window.

526/667

“And there you are,” Razim continued.

“Who would have thought that someone as
careful as myself would put your friend in a
cell with a metal bar just waiting to come
loose? And how foolish of me to dismiss the
guards who usually patrol the prison block,
leaving her free to wriggle out. What could I
have been thinking of?”

Alex was beginning to see where this was
going. All around him, the machines pulsed
and flickered and the needles began to
twitch. Julius Grief was grinning, still clutch-
ing the black plastic box that Razim had giv-
en him.

“Now look at that! She’s out! She’s free.

And despite all the noise she’s made, nobody
has heard. I wonder if anyone has left a car
for her, to help her get away?”

There were other cameras outside. Alex

saw Jack look into the kitchen, then continue
down the passageway where a third camera

527/667

picked up the main courtyard with the wait-
ing Land Rover.

“Just one guard,” Razim crooned. “We

didn’t want to make this too easy, did we!”
“You wanted this to happen.” Alex wasn’t

sure how he found the words. There was a
terrible crushing feeling in his chest, as if he
was being scooped hollow.

“Of course. We were using a long-range
listening device when you were at the lake
this morning. Why else do you think I let the
two of you walk alone? It might amuse you to
know that the technology was almost exactly
the same as that water-bottle gadget you
were given by Mr. Smithers. Yes, I know
about that too.” Razim moved closer, so close
that when he spoke again, Alex could feel his
breath on his cheek. “Have you not yet
learned? I am a master of manipulation. I
manipulated MI6 into sending you here. I
manipulated your arrival at the Cairo Inter-
national College of Arts and Education. And

528/667

very soon I will be manipulating the British
government to do exactly what I demand.
From the start, I have been pushing the but-
tons and pulling the strings. All along, you
have been dancing to my tune.”

Razim nodded at the screen. Alex watched
Jack come out of her hiding place and knock
out the guard.

Julius giggled. “She thinks she’s being so

clever!” he exclaimed.

“I must say, I hadn’t expected her to injure
my guard,” Razim said. “But as to the rest of
it . . . shall we tell Alex?”

“Yes!” Grief’s eyes were dancing. “Tell

him!”

“There are two types of pain, Alex. Physic-

al and emotional. Up until now, my experi-
ments have all been physical. But as I have
already told you, I need you intact. So it is
emotional pain that I am measuring right
now and, I have to say, the results are
already impressive.”

529/667

The needles were jumping and swaying
like grass in the wind. Pulses of light were
shooting across the screens. Alex’s entire
body was tense, his hands straining at the
bonds, his eyes staring. He knew what was
coming. He had worked it out.

“Please,” he pleaded. “She has nothing to

do with this. You don’t have to hurt her.”

Jack had gotten into the car.
“Oh, but I’m afraid I do,” Razim said.
“Miss Starbright is now sitting on thirty
pounds of high explosive,” Razim said. “Con-
sider the situation, Alex. She has been with
you all your life. She has sacrificed so much
for your happiness. She is, I am sure you
would agree, your best friend.”

“Leave her!” The machines had gone mad.

Alex was writhing, trying to break free.

“She is your best friend. And the remote

control, the device that will detonate the ex-
plosive, is in the hand of someone who hates
you, who has been dreaming for more than a

530/667

year of destroying you. Why don’t you speak
to him, Alex? Why don’t you ask him to take
pity on you?”

On the screen, Jack had driven out of the
compound. The Land Rover was already on
the track and picking up speed.

“Please!” Alex felt hot liquid pouring out of
the corners of his eyes. He couldn’t help him-
self. “Don’t . . .”

“I’m sorry?” Julius pushed his face into

Alex’s. “I don’t think I heard you.”

“Please, Julius. I’ll do anything you want . .

.”

“You’re doing exactly what I want,” Julius

said. He was holding the remote control
right in front of Alex’s face. Alex saw his
thumb press down.

The car blew up. The images weren’t

black-and-white after all. The fireball was
bright red and orange at the center. The ex-
plosion seemed to take in the entire desert
and sky. For a moment there was no image

531/667

at all. Then the cameras picked up the flam-
ing skeleton of the car, lying still, with fire
roaring through the shattered windows, and
he knew that Jack Starbright was dead.

Jack Starbright, who had looked after him
since he was seven. Who had been at his side
at the funeral of his uncle and who had tried
to protect him once Ian Rider’s secrets had
taken over his life. Jack Starbright, who had
packed his books for school and taken care of
his bullet wounds, always cheerful, always on
his side. Jack Starbright, the one person he
could confide in, who understood him better
than anyone, and who should never have set
foot in the terrible, shadowy world that he
had inherited. Alex Rider’s grief burst out of
him. There was no stopping it. The tears
were coursing down his cheeks. He was
howling, his whole body contorted, his eyes
tightly shut. At the same time, Julius Grief
was capering about him, laughing, while

532/667

Razim examined his apparatus, tapping at a
keyboard, comparing different readings.

“It’s extraordinary,” he muttered. “We’ve
never had readings like this. Never. It seems
that I have completely underestimated the
power of emotional pain. I may even have to
create a second scale of measurement. This
is really quite remarkable.”

Alex slumped forward, his head lolling
against his chest. He had blacked out. But
still the machines sucked out and translated
his emotions . . . the computers, the monit-
ors, the printers, the gauges.

“Wasn’t that great!” Julius exclaimed.

“Wasn’t that cool!”

“Go to bed, Julius,” Razim replied. He

picked up a printout and held it up to exam-
ine the figures. “I have work to do.”

Two guards had arrived. They untied Alex
and dragged him away. Julius followed them
out of the room. Razim sat where he was,
deep in thought.

Out in the desert, the flames flickered in
the darkness, throwing jagged red shadows
across the sand.

533/667

20

HALF AN INCH

THE CONVOY WAS MOVING SWIFTLY
through the streets of Cairo. There were nine
vehicles in all, starting with two police cars
and four outriders on motorbikes. The three
cars at the center of the procession were
identical: oversized black limousines with
tinted windows and a miniature Stars and
Stripes fluttering at the corner. The cars had
begun their journey a mile away, at the
American embassy in Garden City, and from
the moment they had swung out of the gates
and onto the main road, a whole army of
Egyptian policemen had been deployed to
keep them moving, with officers holding
back the traffic at every corner and at every

535/667

light. From the air, the convoy might have
looked like a living animal, a snake perhaps,
burrowing its way through a hundred thou-
sand ants.

The secretary of state was in the first lim-

ousine. It might have been safer for her to
ride in the middle one with CIA agents in
front and behind . . . but this was also the
more obvious target. Even though the cars
were armor plated, an armor-piercing mis-
sile launched from a rooftop was always a
possibility. All the roofs had been checked.
Armed policemen had taken up strategic po-
sitions all the way along the route and would
remain there until the night was over. The
man known as the Engineer had been seen in
Cairo. He might have been killed, but not be-
fore he had provided an assassin with a
weapon. Nothing could be left to chance.
Sitting in the backseat, next to the win-

dow, the secretary of state watched the drab
buildings and the stationary traffic as they

536/667

flashed by. She was a small woman with
steely eyes and tied-back silver hair, wearing
an off-white silk jacket and skirt, a white
shirt, and a jade necklace that had been giv-
en to her by the Chinese premier on a recent
visit. There was a short, bald-headed man in
a dark suit next to her. He looked nervous,
but she knew it had nothing to do with the
security arrangements. He was her foreign
policy adviser and was already thinking
about what she was going to say. It was al-
ways a dangerous business, making new en-
emies, and her speech tonight would do just
that. Her driver and bodyguard—both CIA
men—were in the front. They knew nothing.
To them, it was just another business trip.

It seemed to have gotten dark very early. It

was only half past six, but the sky was
already black. It was going to rain. The tem-
perature had risen too high even for this
sweltering city and it was obvious that
something was going to break soon. The

537/667

clouds were so heavy that they looked as if
they were about to fall out of the sky, and the
air was sticking to everything it touched.
Even the air-conditioning inside the car
seemed to be fighting a losing battle.

“It’s a pretty nasty night, Jeff,” she said.
Her foreign policy adviser’s name was Jeff
Townsend.

“Could be a downpour,” Jeff agreed.
“I thought it didn’t rain in Cairo.”
“It doesn’t rain often, ma’am. But when it

rains . . . it rains.”

The secretary of state had a headache. It
had been nagging at her ever since she had
touched down in the presidential plane. She
leaned forward. “Do you have an aspirin,
Harry?”

“Sure thing, ma’am.” Her bodyguard was

also a trained medic. He handed her two
pills, which she swallowed with a sip of min-
eral water from a bottle.

538/667

The convoy crossed the Nile on University

Bridge and swept around El-Gamaa
Square—actually a circular area and one that
would normally have been jammed with
traffic. It continued up a wide avenue with
palm trees on each side and lawns and foun-
tains running up the center. The university
itself lay straight ahead. Even on a normal
day, security at the campus was high, with
students passing through a single gateway
and showing ID before they were allowed to
continue. But this week, security levels had
soared with triple checks, full body searches,
metal detectors, the works. The main
Assembly Hall had been in lockdown for the
past twenty-four hours. Egyptian police with
sniffer dogs had finished searching the place
for the fifth time just a few hours ago.

The limousine drove through the gate.

White-suited police stood at attention and
saluted as it passed. And then they were in
the campus itself, with searchlights swinging

539/667

across the ground, people everywhere, heli-
copters hovering overhead. Even the secret-
ary of state began to feel a little anxious. She
noticed that inside the compound, the police
were wearing black and carried machine
guns. Of course, she was used to this. She
couldn’t even cross Washington, DC, without
the same sort of security. But she was in a
strange place, far away from home. And this
thick, unnatural darkness. It felt like the end
of the world.

The driver stopped exactly where he had

been told. Even with the unpredictable Cairo
traffic, everything had been planned with
such precision that the secretary of state was
only fifty seconds late. Someone ran forward
and opened the door. She got out.

She stood in front of a massive building
that resembled a museum, an opera house,
or perhaps a library with a million books. It
stretched all the way across the main cam-
pus, its huge dome supported by five

540/667

columns with steps that could have been
purposefully designed for the arrival of a
president or a head of state. A red carpet led
the way, with crash barriers on both sides,
keeping back the crowds of journalists and
photographers. There was the usual line of
important people waiting to meet her, and
the secretary of state found herself shaking
hands with politicians, academics, and busi-
nessmen . . . people she had never met before
and would never see again. A hundred cam-
eras flashed in the heavy heat. She felt a drop
of rain on her shoulder and looked up. A pair
of helicopters buzzed overhead, their search-
lights scissoring down.

Around the corner from the main en-

trance, in a separate space where they could
be kept out of sight, a whole fleet of brightly
colored vans stood silently, feeding on the
images of the arrival. These were
OBUs—Outside Broadcast Units—and they
had been sent to record the speech for

541/667

worldwide transmission. The BBC were
there, along with Sky, CNN, Fox, Al Jazeera,
and news teams from all over the Middle
East, jammed together in a tangle of thick
black cables and satellite dishes. As the sec-
retary of state continued along the lines,
shaking hands and nodding at smiling faces,
her image was captured on a hundred televi-
sion screens. The OBUs were small and
packed with equipment: monitor stacks,
sound desks, vision racks, electric generat-
ors. Some of them had two or three produ-
cers already playing with the images, dissolv-
ing from one to another, then cutting back to
some presenter in a studio miles away. A
little girl handed the secretary of state some
flowers. The producers grabbed the moment,
going in for the close-up, the reaction shot,
the applause from the crowd. This was the
big speech. It had to have a big buildup too.
The OBUs had arrived earlier in the day,

filing in one at a time through the main gate.

542/667
Each one carried a special permit on the win-
dow and every driver had shown his ID. But
the vans themselves had not been searched.
They were, after all, going to remain outside
the building, and even if a journalist or a
sound engineer had wanted to break into the
Assembly Hall, it would have been com-
pletely impossible. Security was too tight.
The Outside Broadcast Units were always
there. They were part of the event. Nobody
had considered that they might represent a
threat.

But they were wrong.
One of the vans belonged to a television
company called Al Minya and had arrived
with the name in bright red letters and a pyr-
amid logo painted on the side. It carried the
right permit, and the driver, dressed in white
overalls with the same red pyramid on his
top pocket, had shown what seemed to be an
authentic ID. But if anyone had decided to
telephone Al Minya—which was a real cable

543/667

company—they would have been told that
they weren’t actually covering the speech.
They hadn’t sent an OBU, although, as it
happened, one of their vehicles had recently
had to go in for repairs.

If they had checked the license plate, they

would have discovered that this was the
missing vehicle. They might then have dis-
covered that the driver—shaven headed and
built like a bulldog—had never worked in
television and that his real name was Erik
Gunter.

And finally, they might have searched the
van and found an English schoolboy, sitting
with his arms tied and a gag in his mouth, a
prisoner, inside.

They had brought Alex Rider back from the
Siwa Oasis that afternoon, landing the Sikor-
sky H-34 at the same building site where he
had been taken from the Northern Cemetery.
He was wearing his Cairo College uniform

544/667
and was securely belted in place. Without the
belt, he would have slumped forward. He
seemed to be half asleep.

Gunter was waiting with the Al Minya van
when the helicopter landed, and even he was
a little surprised by the change in the boy
who had been captured forty-eight hours be-
fore. Despite his time in the sun, Alex was an
ashen white and there was a lost, empty
quality to his eyes. When he was ordered to
step down from the cabin, he did just that,
and he didn’t move as his hands were tied up
in front of him. Gunter led him into the van.
Alex stumbled briefly at the doorway, steady-
ing himself on one of the countertops. But he
said nothing and he didn’t try to resist. There
hardly seemed any point gagging him. He
looked completely defeated.

“What have you done to him?” Gunter

asked.

Julius Grief had sprung down from the
helicopter and followed them across the

545/667

rubble-strewn ground. Like Alex, he was in
school uniform. “We played a little joke on
him,” he explained. “But I don’t think he en-
joyed it.”

Four hours later, the Al Minya van was in
its place at the very end of the line, farthest
away from the entrance where the secretary
of state had arrived. Along with all the other
OBUs, it was plugged into the main feed be-
ing delivered by the television network inside
the Assembly Hall and received the same im-
ages as all the news channels. Julius Grief
hadn’t come with them. Gunter and Alex
were alone.

Gunter was beginning to feel unnerved by

the long silence and by the semiconscious
boy sitting tied by his arms and feet to a met-
al chair between two banks of machinery. He
took out his gun—it was a black, Russian-
made Tokarev TT-33, the same gun that Alex
had found in his office—and laid it on the
desk, within easy reach. He had checked that

546/667

the door of the OBU was locked, but if any-
one tried to come in, he wouldn’t hesitate to
kill them. Then he clicked open a can of Coke
and turned one of the dials on the control
panel in front of him.

“. . . and the secretary of state has just ar-
rived, and we can see her entering the build-
ing. The man beside her is Jeff Townsend,
who has been her foreign policy adviser for
the past two years . . .”

The voice was that of a CNN newscaster.

Gunter could see the secretary of state on
one of the monitors. She was walking down a
wide corridor with officials applauding on
both sides. Then the image cut to the audi-
ence waiting inside the Assembly Hall. There
were two thousand people there, sitting on
three levels. Everyone was dressed smartly,
packed together in rows that curved around
in front of a stage that was decorated with a
single podium and two American flags.

547/667

From where he was sitting, Alex had a

good view of the screen. But he didn’t seem
to be interested. Gunter wondered if he even
knew where he was. Well, it didn’t matter.
He glanced at his watch. The speech was due
to start in twelve minutes. And five minutes
after that, Alex would be dead.

He stretched a hand out and turned off the

sound.

“I expect you want to know what this is all

about,” Gunter said. He didn’t really care if
Alex wanted to know or not. He just felt a
need to break the silence between them.

With the gag in his mouth, Alex couldn’t

talk. He didn’t look as if he wanted to.

Gunter thought for a moment, then took
out a knife, which flicked open in his hand.
“I’m going to untie you,” he said. “Because
you’ll be leaving here shortly. But if you even
try to stand up or to get out of that chair be-
fore I give you permission, I will shoot you in
the stomach. Do you understand that?”

548/667

Alex nodded very slightly.
“Good.”
Gunter stood up and leaned over him, cut-

ting the ropes behind him, releasing his
arms. He stepped back quickly in case Alex
tried to lash out—but the boy didn’t even
seem to be aware that he was free. Gunter
cut the rest of the cords, took off the gag, and
sat down again. There was very little space
between them. The gun was right next to him
and his eyes had never left Alex’s. The differ-
ent screens inside the OBU showed pictures
of the audience, the Assembly Hall from out-
side, the empty stage.

“That’s better,” Gunter said. “We still have
a bit of time together and I’d quite like to ex-
plain what’s going on. The fact of the matter
is that Scorpia has put together a rather bril-
liant plan and this is where it ends—just you
and me, in this van. You get a bullet, I’m
afraid. And do you know what I get? A

549/667

million dollars—just for moving one finger
half an inch.

“I’ve never actually killed a kid before, and

for what it’s worth, I don’t feel too good
about it. But you see, it’s not my fault. You
don’t know anything about me, so let me tell
you. When I came out of Afghanistan . . . Do
you know how many bullets I have in me?
They dug two of them out, but there are still
two of them lodged inside—they couldn’t
reach them—and they’re killing me. I can feel
them. I took those bullets for my men and I
was glad to do it. But when I got home, well,
suddenly I discovered that I wasn’t quite the
hero that I thought. They put me in a hospit-
al in Birmingham—it was even a mixed ward,
can you believe it? I was in pain all the time.
You have no idea how much pain. But when I
rang the bell, nobody came. Sometimes I was
just left there to soil the bed. It was disgust-
ing. And in the end, when I was able to limp
out of there, oh yes, they gave me the medal.

550/667

But they didn’t give me a decent pension.
The army didn’t want to know. I couldn’t
even get a job. You know? Nobody gives a
damn about the war in Afghanistan. Nobody
cares. So when Scorpia came along, when
they offered me this opportunity, do you
think I was going to say no? A million dol-
lars, Alex. And too bad that I have to kill a
kid. But right now I have to look out for
number one.”

Alex didn’t speak.
Gunter leaned over and suddenly slapped
him. Alex’s head rocked backward. “Talk to
me, dammit,” he said. “I want to know what
you think.”

“I don’t think anything,” Alex said.
Gunter nodded, as if this was enough. “I

wonder if you’ve ever heard of the Elgin
marbles,” he went on. “Did you ever study
them in class? Or perhaps you visited them
at the British Museum. Well, believe it or
not—and this must sound very strange to

551/667

you, sitting here in the middle of
Cairo—that’s what this is all about. There
was this rich Greek guy called Ariston and he
wanted them sent back to Athens. Can you
believe that? He was the one who hired
Scorpia, and they’ve been playing you like a
puppet on a string . . . you and MI6. You’ve
been complete idiots from the very start.
“This is how it works.” Gunter tilted his
watch again. “In eleven minutes’ time, the
American secretary of state is going to begin
a speech. She’ll make some general remarks
about the Middle East . . . We’ve already seen
a draft of what she’s going to say. And then,
she’ll start talking about the balance of
power in the world and how completely and
utterly useless and untrustworthy we Brits
have become. And at that moment there’ll be
a shot in the auditorium . . . a hidden assas-
sin . . . and I’m afraid the poor woman will be
killed. There will, of course, be an immediate
panic. There are two thousand people in

552/667

there and they’ll all come stampeding out.
It’s dark and it looks like it’s about to rain,
which will help. Nobody will have any idea
what’s going on—which is exactly what we
want. Because at that moment, I’m going to
kill you too.”

Gunter was about to continue, but just

then an image came up on one of the televi-
sion screens and he reached out and jabbed
one of the buttons on the console, freezing it.
Still keeping half an eye on Alex, he turned a
dial. The image zoomed in and Alex saw ex-
actly what he was meant to see. A row of
boys and girls in dark blue and light blue
uniforms—the politics group from the Cairo
International College of Arts and Education.
The principal, Monty Jordan, was at one end
of the line. Miss Watson was at the other.
Julius Grief was between them, chatting to
Gabriella, the daughter of the ambassador.
Of course, she would think he was Alex. He
looked like Alex and he sounded like Alex,

553/667

and she hadn’t really known him long
enough to tell the difference.

“Ah—there you are!” Gunter exclaimed.
“Did you ever wonder how your name got
onto the politics group? I put it there, of
course. They do lots of visits like this and
there was no way they were going to miss the
American secretary of state. Mr. Jordan got
tickets for the whole group and there you
are, right in the middle of them.

“Any minute now, you’ll stand up and

leave the auditorium. You’ll tell the principal
that you’re not feeling well and need some
fresh air. You’ll slip around the back, passing
quite close to this van, as it happens. Then
you’ll go back inside through a service door,
and that’s when the shot will be fired. And
the next time anyone sees you, you’ll be lying
dead on the tarmac with a bullet in your
head.”

“You want people to think that I killed

her.” It was the first time that Alex had

554/667

volunteered anything, and he sounded
almost matter-of-fact, as if he didn’t care
what happened.

“Exactly. You’ve finally worked it out. You

see, Scorpia has been recording you and
filming you for quite a few weeks now.
They’ve created a whole file about you—the
Horseman file, they call it. What’s in it? Well,
there’s a lot of information about your other
missions, proving that you’ve worked for
MI6 in the past. But there’s also a film of the
day Alan Blunt and Mrs. Jones drove to see
you in Chelsea, including a recording of the
entire conversation. With a little editing, it
will prove conclusively that they sent you to
Cairo, although it won’t say why. We even in-
tercepted the e-mail booking that shows that
MI6 paid for your flight tickets.

“And then there’s the matter of the

weapon being used to kill the secretary of
state. You’ll remember that I took several
pictures of you holding it, and at the same

555/667

time you’ll have left your DNA and finger-
prints all over it. We’ve also got plenty of
evidence tying you in with the death of Mr.
Habib. I was actually quite surprised that
you fell for that old trick, listening in on my
telephone call outside the school office. I
knew you’d followed me to the House of
Gold. And what does everyone think? You
see Habib, you get the gun, and the next
minute he’s dead and the boat’s been blown
up. Who did it? Well, you did, of course.”

Gunter drank some of the Coke, then put

the can down.

“So what happens now?” he went on. “The
secretary of state has been assassinated just
as she was about to start an anti-British
speech. The whole of Cairo is in an uproar.
At the same time, a British schoolboy is
found dead at the scene. His classmates can
testify that he was behaving very strangely
and left the Assembly Hall minutes before
the shot was fired. Rumors begin to swirl

556/667

around. As always, there are conspiracy the-
ories. People say that British intelligence was
involved in the shooting and that the dead
teenager was actually working for them. Of
course, they deny it. And after a few days or
maybe weeks, the press moves on and
everything becomes quiet again. It looks as if
they’ve gotten away with it.

“And then Scorpia moves in with the

Horseman file. They have all the proof they
need to show that in this case the conspiracy
theories are true. Alex Rider was an MI6
agent. He was the killer. We have photo-
graphic evidence, forensic evidence, films,
recordings, intercepts . . . and we’ll pass the
whole lot over to the Americans unless you
do exactly what we say. The British govern-
ment will have no choice! The Horseman file
would quite simply blow their country apart.
It would make them the enemy of the entire
world. Can you imagine how nervous they
will be, Alex? They will be at the complete

557/667

mercy of Scorpia. What is it that we want? A
billion dollars? A trillion? But—no! All we
ask for is an announcement that the Elgin
marbles will be returned—immediately—to
their correct home. Maybe it’ll upset a few
art historians and some pompous professors,
but it’s really a tiny price to pay.

“And here’s a funny thing. As it happens,
the secretary of state has Greek parentage.
Her mother was born in Athens. So the Brit-
ish government can announce that they’re
sending back the marbles in her honor!
Everyone will be happy. The prime minister
will even be congratulated on his considera-
tion. He will see at once that he has no
choice but to agree.

“Everyone wins. I get paid. Scorpia gets

paid. The Greeks get their marbles. MI6 gets
the file. The only losers, I suppose, are the
secretary of state and you. She’ll be killed in .
. .” Another turn of the watch. “In seven
minutes’ time. And you die the moment

558/667

Julius Grief gets back to this van. He’s asked
to watch when I pull the trigger, by the way. I
don’t think he likes you very much.”

Gunter finished speaking and looked back
at the television screen. All the cameras were
now fixed on the stage inside the Assembly
Hall, and even as he watched, a tall, dark-
haired Egyptian man appeared and began to
address the crowd in Arabic. The secretary of
state was about to walk on. Her speech was
about to begin. He turned up the volume but
kept it low.

“Julius should have left by now,” Gunter

said. “You have very little time left, Alex. In a
way, I feel sorry for you. But if there’s a mor-
al in all this, it’s that kids shouldn’t get
mixed up in adult affairs. You should have
known that. Now it’s too late.”

“I want something,” Alex said. His voice

was neutral.

“Oh yes?” Gunter was surprised that Alex

had asked for anything at all.

559/667

“I want a cigarette.”
“A cigarette?”
“Yes.”
“When did you start smoking?”
“A year ago.”
Gunter shook his head. “It’s a bad habit.

You’re too young to smoke.”

“It’s not going to kill me now. What differ-

ence does it make?”

“You have a point.” Gunter shrugged. “But

I’m afraid I don’t smoke. I don’t have any
cigarettes.”

“There’s a pack over there.” Alex nodded at

the work surface near the door, just behind
Gunter. Sure enough, there was a pack of
Black Devils—the cigarettes smoked by
Razim—lying on the surface.

Gunter glanced over his shoulder. The ci-
garette pack was within easy reach. “I hope
you’re not trying to trick me,” he said. “You
think you can distract my attention? Let me

560/667
assure you that I could shoot you dead before
you even realized I’d picked up the gun.”

“I don’t care what you do to me,” Alex said.

“I just want a cigarette.”

“All right. If you want the truth, Alex, I

think you’re a little pathetic. But if that really
is your last wish . . .”

Without taking his eyes off Alex, Gunter
reached back for the cigarette pack, opened
it, and slid his hand inside to take out a
cigarette.

And screamed.
In half a second, all his poise and self-con-

trol had gone. The gun was forgotten. Even
Alex didn’t matter anymore. All he was
aware of was the pain blasting its way
through the palm of his hand and up his
arm—all the way to his shoulder. The pain
was crippling. It was tearing at his heart.

And from out of the cigarette pack crawled

a mature, angry, fat-tailed scorpion. The
sting of such a creature is not always lethal,

561/667

but this one had been a prisoner inside the
cigarette pack for almost twelve hours, and
in that time it had been filling its glandular
sacs with poison, waiting for the moment
when it could attack. As soon as Gunter had
opened the pack, it had struck, its barb—or
hypodermic aculeus—injecting a dose of
fast-acting neurotoxins into the palm of his
hand. At the same instant, Alex had come
back to life, springing out of the chair and
snatching up the gun in one movement. He
didn’t have time to load it. Instead, he swung
it with all his strength into Gunter’s face. He
heard the man’s nose break. With blood
spouting, still clutching his injured hand,
Gunter fell back, lost his balance, and fell.
His head hit the edge of the countertop with
a sickening thud. His neck snapped forward.
He lay still.

Alex stood where he was, breathing

heavily.

562/667

He had noticed the nest of scorpions out-
side his cell the day he had arrived at Siwa
Oasis. With no gadgets and no weapons, he
had begun to formulate a plan long before
Jack Starbright had tried to escape. He had
stolen the cigarette pack at breakfast. He had
concealed it in his cell. And he had been
awake all night—the longest night of his
life—hoping that a scorpion would reappear.
The adult had climbed in through the win-
dows a few hours after sunrise. Alex had
managed to trap it in the cigarette pack and
had been keeping it in his pocket ever since.
He had slipped the cigarette pack into pos-

ition as he entered the OBU, pretending to
stumble. It had been there ever since.

Alex’s face had barely changed. His eyes

were still far away. But now there was a pin-
prick of something there, deep inside them.
Had Gunter been conscious or even alive, he
might have described it as a spark of fury.
Alex examined the gun. It was quite heavy in

563/667

his hand, but he could see that it would be
fairly simple to use, with an external ham-
mer, no safety catch, and a detachable box
magazine in the handle holding eight bullets.
It was fully loaded. Alex slipped it into the
waistband of his trousers. He was going to
need it.

There was a round of applause and Alex

glanced at the screens. The American secret-
ary of state was walking onto the stage. The
audience had risen to its feet. Alex took one
last look at Gunter. The Scorpia man didn’t
seem to be breathing. His hand looked like a
rubber glove that someone had pumped full
of air. It reminded Alex that there was an
angry scorpion somewhere inside the Out-
side Broadcast Unit. It was time to go.

He found the lock and slid the door open
to find himself facing the Assembly Hall just
a few yards in front of him. It was very dark
but the rain hadn’t started yet. A blast of
warm, heavy air rubbed against his face,

564/667

taking over from the air-conditioning. He
could see the other OBUs. Some of them had
kept their doors open, allowing the gray-and-
white flicker of their television monitors to
escape into the night. There were no police-
men or guards in sight, and he guessed that
they would either be around the main en-
trance or else inside the Assembly Hall, con-
centrating on the audience and the stage.

But then a single figure flitted in front of

him, keeping close to the main wall, hurrying
around the back of the building. He was
dressed in dark blue trousers and a light blue
shirt and he was breathing heavily. Somehow
he must have been delayed. Perhaps one of
the CIA men had tried to stop him from leav-
ing the building. He wasn’t carrying any
weapon, of course. He would have been
searched on the way in and possibly on the
way out too.

It was Julius Grief.

Alex slid the door of the OBU shut behind

him and set off in pursuit.

565/667

21

CAIRO STORM

“GOOD EVENING, LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN. It’s a real pleasure to find
myself back in Egypt, a country that has al-
ways been a good friend to democracy. It’s
certainly warm this evening. But it’s nothing
compared with the warmth of your
welcome.”

An image of the American secretary of

state was being projected onto a vast televi-
sion monitor at the back of the stage, her
head and shoulders looming over the actual
woman herself. She was standing between
the two flags with the lectern in front of her.
Her opening words had been projected onto
a glass screen that stood just on the edge of

567/667

her vision, and they could be read only from
her side. In front of her, two thousand
people greeted her opening remarks with a
ripple of applause that seemed to spread out
and grow, rising all the way to the dome.

The front rows and special galleries to the
left and to the right were taken up by Egyp-
tian politicians, sheikhs, diplomats, and
businesspeople, dressed in smart suits,
bright white dishdashas, sparkling evening
dresses, and jewelry. In the far distance,
three tiers up, the spectators at the very back
were little more than gray smudges in the
shadows. Security men stood at every door
and at intervals along the aisles, watching
not the secretary of state but the people
watching her. All the exits had been closed
moments before she had begun to speak.
Nobody would be allowed in until she had
finished. And—unless there was an emer-
gency—nobody would be allowed to leave.

568/667

The lights in the halls had been dimmed,

but there were spotlights focused on the
stage, trapping the speaker in a perfect white
circle. The light and sound levels were being
controlled by two technicians in a sealed-off
cabin with a plate glass window constructed
underneath the first circle. But most of the
machinery, including the projection equip-
ment for the plasma TV, was actually con-
cealed much higher up. A winding staircase
led all the way from the ground floor, follow-
ing the curve of the dome. At the top there
was a low, arched doorway leading into an
area packed with fuses, circuit boards, and
temperature gauges. This second control
room had been built into the ceiling at the
very center of the dome and slightly re-
sembled the cockpit of a spaceship: com-
pletely circular with narrow slits that would
have given someone a bird’s-eye view of the
stage—if they had been allowed inside.

569/667

The room had been quickly identified as a
grade-one security risk, an ideal position for
a would-be assassin. It had been thoroughly
searched—not once but several times. The
door was locked from outside and a CIA man
had been in position, sitting there on his
own, since nine o’clock that morning. He was
there now, trying to listen to the speech,
which sounded muffled and distant. He was
bored. When Joe Byrne had named the pro-
tection details and started handing out jobs,
he had certainly drawn the short straw.

The CIA agent couldn’t have known that
the weapon that was going to be used to kill
the secretary of state, the L96A1 Arctic War-
fare sniper rifle, was already in place and
that Julius Grief, who had been trained as a
sharp-shooter since the age of nine, was
already on his way to collect it. In a few
minutes’ time, he would take his place be-
hind the door and the moment the secretary
of state uttered the word Britain for the first

time, he would fire, sending a .300
Winchester Magnum bullet traveling at 850
meters per second into her head.

Far below, she was already developing her

570/667

theme.

“The theme of my talk this evening is

friendship. Who are the long-term partners,
who can we still trust in a rapidly changing
world?”

Her voice rang out, echoing around the

great Assembly Hall. The words scrolled, line
by line, up the Plexiglas teleprompter.
Another page of general introduction. Then
she would read the word that would spell out
her death.

Alex Rider watched as Julius Grief crept
around the side of the building, doing his
best to keep out of sight on the other side of
the parked cars and OBUs. The other boy
was close enough for him to make out the
light brown hair, the pale skin, and even his

571/667

intense, cold-blooded gaze. But Julius hadn’t
noticed him. He was in too much of a hurry,
making up for lost time, and his attention
was fixed on the way ahead, stepping over
the cables that were strewn along the tarmac.
Alex followed. He could feel the heat of the
night bearing down on him. It was as if he
were carrying the whole weight of the world
on his shoulders, as if the coming storm were
trying to pound him down.

On the other side of the wall, a major in-
ternational speech was being delivered by
the second-most powerful politician from the
United States. Her words were about to
cause a political firestorm. And here, out in
the darkness, two identical twins were stalk-
ing each other, one of them with murder on
his mind. What would a security guard have
made of it? But there were no closed-circuit
TV cameras back here, and there didn’t seem
to be anyone around apart from the televi-
sion crews, locked up in their steel boxes.

572/667

Why should there have been? There was
surely only one way into the Assembly Hall
and that was around at the front.

And yet . . .
Alex saw the open door even as Julius

began to make his way toward it. That was
insanity. The whole place was crawling with
police and security men. After all the prepar-
ation and with the speech meaning so much,
were the authorities just going to let anyone
stroll in?

Julius disappeared through the doorway.
Alex allowed a few seconds to pass, but be-
fore he could sprint across the open space
and go in himself, the worst happened and
two armed soldiers suddenly appeared, walk-
ing around the corner, talking together. Alex
ducked behind one of the parked cars, wait-
ing for them to move on. But they didn’t
seem to be in any hurry. They were standing
right outside the door—it didn’t seem to
bother them that it was open—and had

573/667

chosen this moment to have a cigarette. Alex
saw one of them produce a pack and offer it
to the other. Both of them lit up. Alex was so
close that he even caught a whiff of the burn-
ing tobacco cutting through the heavy air.

What should he do? Julius Grief would be
well on his way to his position, wherever that
might be. Eleven minutes—that was what
Gunter had said—and at least six of them
must have already passed. Alex was tempted
to make himself known, to raise the alarm.
But he knew it would do no good. The sol-
diers would probably speak little or no Eng-
lish. Even if they did, it was unlikely they
would believe a fifteen-year-old boy. He
would be arrested and dragged out of the
area and by the time he had spoken to
someone in authority, the American secret-
ary of state would be dead.

Of course, Scorpia’s plan would still have

failed. Alex would be able to prove that he
hadn’t been involved and the so-called

574/667

Horseman file would be useless. But that
wasn’t enough. In the confusion, after the
shot had been fired, Julius Grief might es-
cape. Razim had already said that he was
planning to slip away to another country.
Alex had already decided. That wasn’t going
to happen.

He looked around him, searching for a

stone, a brick, anything heavy. It was hard to
see in the darkness, but he noticed a shard of
light glinting off a steel nut that must have
come unscrewed from a piece of equipment.
Alex reached out and took it, balancing it in
the palm of his hand. Yes. It would do. He
twisted around and threw it with all his
strength. The nut arced through the darkness
and hit the side of a car, denting the metal-
work. The noise was loud enough to make
the two soldiers jump. At once, they dropped
their cigarettes and hurried forward to see
what had happened. Alex watched them go
past, then darted over to the door. He didn’t

575/667

need to be careful anymore. Julius Grief
would be well ahead of him by now. The real
worry was that he might already be too late.
And now he understood why no one had
shown any interest in the open door. It led
into a narrow service room, hardly more
than a corridor, illuminated by two bare
lightbulbs dangling on wires. There were a
couple of metal buckets and a mop, some
empty crates, and, about five yards away, a
brick wall with a row of hooks and a pair of
dirty overalls hanging above the floor. Some
old furniture—folding chairs and filing cab-
inets—had been stored on one side. A row of
very old, dusty fuse boxes lined the other. It
was nothing more than a dead end. The cor-
ridor went nowhere.

Alex would have moved on. He would have

thought he’d made a mistake. But he recog-
nized the room. He had seen it in one of the
photographs in Gunter’s desk. He stepped
inside. Julius Grief had definitely come in

576/667

here—but how could he possibly have disap-
peared? Alex had watched him come in here.
He had been watching the entrance ever
since. There were no other doors; there was
no other way out. If Julius had slipped back
out again, Alex would have seen him.

The hooks.
It seemed like years ago that Alex had
been in the office at Cairo College. Razim
had boasted that he had manipulated Alex
from the start—but breaking in had surely
been the one thing that he couldn’t have
foreseen. Razim had arranged for him to
come to the school. The fake telephone call
had led him to the House of Gold. But
nobody could have guessed that he would
use one of Smithers’s gadgets to get into the
office. And so it surely followed that
whatever he had found in the secret drawer
must actually mean something. It hadn’t
been left there for him to find.

577/667

The newspaper—the Washington

Post—must have been reporting the visit of
the secretary of state. The pictures of the
Assembly Hall . . . that was where her speech
was taking place. This room. And the photo-
graph of a hook shaped like a swan’s neck. It
was identical to the ones he was looking at
now.

Alex had moved forward even before he

had arrived at the end of his thought process.
He reached out and grabbed one of the
hooks, then another. He was expecting them
to twist and turn, but in fact the third one
pulled down like an oversized switch. He
heard a click and a section of the wall swung
open, revealing a metal staircase constructed
between two solid concrete walls, so narrow
that he would have to turn sideways to climb
it.

At once he understood the cleverness of
Scorpia’s plan. How do you put an assassin
inside a building that will be surrounded,

578/667

searched from top to bottom, kept under
constant surveillance, and locked up for
twenty-four hours? Answer—you build a
secret passage weeks or months before your
target arrives. Alex had no doubt at all that
the sniper rifle had been concealed here,
ready for Julius Grief to find and to carry up
with him. No wonder he had been empty-
handed when he had gone in. All he had to
do was pick it up, climb to a good vantage
point, and fire. He wouldn’t even have to
leave if he didn’t want to. He could stay com-
pletely hidden for days.

Alex was already climbing the staircase,

which had been built between the inner and
outer shell of the Assembly Hall in a space
that might have been used for pipework or
perhaps to help with the circulation of cool
air. There were no lights, and after about ten
steps away from the secret opening, he was
plunged into blackness. Presumably Julius
had brought a flashlight. But Alex didn’t

579/667

need to see. The staircase was made out of
metal slabs, each one placed at a regular in-
terval so that provided he kept the same
rhythm, moving his feet the same distance,
he wouldn’t stumble or fall. The walls on
either side helped too, keeping him wedged
in place. He was completely blind, but it
didn’t matter. He knew where he was going
and what he had to do.

He continued up, knowing from the ache
in his legs that the staircase was taking him
all the way to the top of the Assembly Hall.
He felt himself curving around and guessed
that he was inside the dome. He hadn’t been
counting but he knew he must have climbed
at least two hundred steps. How much time
had it taken? That didn’t matter, provided he
wasn’t already too late.

He saw light at the same time as he heard
a voice—a woman speaking in an American
accent, a long way away, as if on the other
side of a curtain.

580/667

“. . . the United States has always valued
its special relationships with countries all
over the world. However, I believe that with
the shift in global power, we have to look at
those relationships again . . .”

Alex reached into his waistband and drew

out the Tokarev TT-33 that he had taken
from Gunter. Clutching it in his hand, he
edged forward. Part of him was screaming at
him to hurry. But at the same time he knew
he could make no noise. He was moving to-
ward an entrance . . . not a door but a jagged
opening cut into the brickwork, barely big
enough to crawl through. The light was flick-
ering, as if projected from a television
screen.

“One country in particular has, in my view,

failed to move forward with the times . . .”

Alex looked through the doorway and saw

Julius Grief lying on his stomach with the
sniper rifle that Alex himself had once
handled pressed against his shoulder, the tip

581/667

of the barrel resting on a narrow, slitlike
window at floor level. Julius was wearing
latex gloves . . . He wouldn’t leave his own
fingerprints on the stock or the trigger.

“That country is our friend and will remain
our friend. But I think it is time to recognize
that it no longer has very much influence on
international affairs . . .”

The control room was completely circular,

like an upturned bowl, and looked as if it
hadn’t actually been used for years. It had a
shabby gray carpet, banks of old machinery,
pulleys and wheels, electric generators, and
tin boxes that might contain air-conditioning
units. All of these were connected by a tangle
of pipes and cables. Julius was lying with his
feet toward Alex. Looking over his shoulder,
out the window, Alex saw what he was aim-
ing at: a huge head, a smart-looking woman
with silver hair. No. That was the television
screen. The actual target was much smaller,
standing in front of it, leaning on a lectern.

The secretary of state. He could imagine the
crosshairs in the scope centering on her
head.

“We all know which country I’m referring

582/667

to . . .”

Alex saw Julius tighten his grip on the rifle

and knew that the moment had come and
that he had to act.

“Julius!” he shouted.
On the stage, the woman heard the shout.
It had broken through the silence of the aud-
itorium. She paused and looked up.

Julius Grief reacted with incredible speed.

He had been about to fire at his target, but
instead he whipped around like an injured
snake, turning the gun on Alex. Alex ducked
back into the darkness as Julius fired, the
sound of the bullet explosive in the small
space. The gunshot was incredibly
loud—purposefully so. It had always been
part of Scorpia’s plan to cause panic, to help
Julius and Gunter to make their escape.

583/667

The secretary of state never uttered the

word Britain. Her security men were already
on the stage, rushing toward her, forming a
protective human shield, covering every
angle. In an instant, she had disappeared
from sight. It took the audience a few more
seconds to realize what had happened. The
people in the front seats were the first to get
to their feet, pushing sideways, fighting with
each other in their hurry to get out. Panic
spread like some incredible virus, rippling in
every direction, transforming the crowd
which seconds before had been seated and
silent into a seething, surging mass.

Grief’s first bullet had missed Alex, smash-

ing into the brickwork above his head even
as he had pulled back. Instantly, he reloaded.
Alex had misjudged his own movement.
Either a piece of broken pipe or a part of the
wall—it was impossible to tell in the dark-
ness—had jabbed into his right arm, sending
a bolt of pain all the way up to his shoulder,

584/667

numbing him. He was forced to waste pre-
cious seconds recovering, then lunged back
into the control room, knowing that the nar-
row entrance would slow him down and that
Julius would have the advantage over him.
Sure enough, as he reentered the circular
chamber, he saw that Julius had already re-
loaded and that the gun was aimed directly
at him, no more than a few feet away. At this
range, it would be impossible to miss. He
saw death in the other boy’s eyes.

And then the door—the real door to the

room—flew open and the CIA man who had
been standing guard burst in. He was young,
in his twenties, with the same clean-cut, boy-
ish looks that all the agents seemed to share.
There was a gun clasped in his hands. He
had taken up a stance with his legs apart,
ready to fire.

For two or maybe three seconds, nobody
did anything. Julius and Alex had been aim-
ing at each other. The agent was right

585/667

between them. He had a gun in his hand but
didn’t know which way to turn it. It was obvi-
ous to him that there had been a major se-
curity breach, but what he was seeing didn’t
make any sense. He was looking at two boys,
identically dressed in some sort of school
uniform, identical to each other in every way.
All his training and years of experience in the
field hadn’t prepared him for anything like
this.

It was the weapon that decided him.

Someone had just taken a shot at the secret-
ary of state, and although one of these kids
had a pistol, the other was holding a rifle. He
must be the enemy. The agent brought his
gun around. Julius did the same and he was
the first to fire. The bullet smashed into the
man’s chest, throwing him back toward Alex.
The two of them fell backward. The dead
man was on top of him, pinning him down
but at the same time shielding him from any
further shots. Julius realized he had run out

586/667

of time. He had to leave. He threw the rifle
down and ran out the door that the agent
had opened. Alex clambered to his feet and
went after him.

This was the real service staircase. It was
made up of wide concrete slabs with white-
painted walls and it was lit by a series of
neon strips. Alex took the steps three at a
time. He was fairly certain that Julius was
unarmed. If he’d had another gun on him,
he’d have surely tried to use it. The real
danger was that once the other boy reached
the bottom, he would all too easily lose him-
self in the crowd. Alex knew that there were
two thousand people down below, surging
out into the night. If Julius got too far ahead
of him, he would disappear in seconds and
Alex was grimly determined—he was going
to end this tonight.

The staircase emerged on the far side of

the building, away from the OBUs, with the
main gates visible ahead. Alex burst out into

587/667

a scene of pure chaos. There were people
everywhere, scattering across the ornament-
al lawns. Tourist police were shouting at
them, blowing whistles, waving frantically
with gloved hands, but everyone was ignor-
ing them. More police cars were arriving
with lights stabbing at the darkness, sirens
adding to the confusion. Here and there,
Alex caught sight of security men, Americ-
ans, shouting into their throat mikes, barely
able to hear a word. The night was thicker
than ever and the Assembly Hall loomed
over them, massive and swollen, like a bomb
about to go off. Alex sucked in the warm air.
He was already sweating. It was like being
inside a gigantic oven.

Where was Grief? Alex searched for him,
trying to pick out the blue uniform from the
swirl of suits and cocktail dresses. There was
no sign of the other students from Cairo Col-
lege, but they could have been anywhere. A
voice erupted in Arabic, speaking through a

588/667

bullhorn. It was accompanied by an electric
whine of static. Where was he? Alex was
afraid that he was too late, that he had
already got away.

And then he saw a movement out of the

corner of his eye that somehow didn’t fit into
the pattern of fear and people taking flight. A
flash of blue colliding with white. There he
was! Julius had attacked one of the tourist
police. Why would he want to do that? Alex
watched the man go down with a knee in his
solar plexus and saw Julius sweep something
up from the edge of the lawn. Now he under-
stood. Julius had decided to arm himself and
he had taken the lightweight Vzor 27 pistol
that is standard-issue to the Egyptian police.
Well, that made two of them. Alex was still
holding the Tokarev and he gripped it more
tightly, balancing it in the palm of his hand.
The chase had become more dangerous, but
somehow it felt right. After all, the two of

589/667

them were meant to be identical. Well, now
they were.

He set off in pursuit. Julius must have

sensed he was coming because he suddenly
twisted around, and although they were a
good sixty feet apart, separated by hundreds
of people racing in every direction across the
campus, their eyes locked. Alex wondered if
Julius was going to shoot it out right
here—but the other boy was in no mood for a
fight. He had a policeman lying unconscious
at his feet and it wouldn’t be long before oth-
ers noticed. With something like a snarl, he
turned and began to run.

Alex went after him. He wasn’t even trying
to hide his own gun. The police and security
men might be looking for a would-be assas-
sin, but they would barely glance twice at a
teenager in school uniform. Julius was get-
ting close to the gate, burrowing through the
crowd, using his elbow and fist to strike out
at anyone who got in his way. Alex seemed to

590/667

be moving more slowly, taking his time. But
the distance between them remained the
same and he knew, with a cold certainty, that
he wasn’t going to let the other boy slip out
of his sight.

Julius was through. On the other side of
the gates there was a wide, circular parking
area with dozens of hawkers, taxi drivers,
more policemen, and soldiers, some of whom
still seemed unsure what exactly had taken
place. A long avenue with fountains and
statues led down to the main road, but the
traffic had tied itself into an impossible knot
with everyone trying to get away. As Alex
reached the gate, he felt something hard hit
him on the shoulder and wondered if
someone had struck him from behind. He
turned briefly but there was no one there.
Behind him, the Assembly Hall was lit by
huge spotlights, bathed in a brilliant white
glow. There were still people pouring out

591/667

between the great pillars, surging toward
him.

He was hit again, this time on the head,

and felt water trickling down the side of his
face. Now he understood. The storm was fi-
nally breaking. The first raindrops—as big as
bullets—were already falling. He looked up
in time to see a flash of lightning with all the
power of the universe come scorching across
the Cairo skyline. At the same moment, there
was a roll of thunder so loud, it was as if the
whole world had split in two. Then the rain
came down in earnest.

It was incredible—a vertical flood. Within
five seconds, Alex was completely drenched.
The rain washed through his hair, swept over
his shoulders and down into his shirt. He felt
it coursing over his lips and into his mouth.
It half blinded him. But he ignored it. Julius
might think that the rain was on his side,
that it would help to conceal him. Alex was
going to prove him wrong.

592/667

The traffic, which had been barely moving,
shuffling forward in fits and starts, had come
to a complete halt. The cars were deluged.
Windshield wipers that hadn’t been used in
months were being pushed into life, slug-
gishly sweeping curtains of water off the
glass. Windows were being wound up, sun-
roofs desperately fastened. And still the
drivers were beeping, as if they could some-
how persuade the bad weather to go away.
Alex pressed forward, feeling the water sur-
ging over his ankles. The roads in Cairo have
no drains. Already the cars seemed to be sit-
ting in the middle of a river. There was a
second blinding burst of lightning. The rain
hammered down.

Julius was weaving between the stationary

cars. Where was he going? Gunter had said
that he was returning to the OBU. He had
wanted to be there when Alex died. That plan
was no longer open to him, but maybe there
was a second getaway car out there, a driver

593/667

waiting to take him to the helicopter. Alex
quickened his pace. He had reached the line
of traffic himself now. He moved past the
cars, glimpsing the figures inside, almost in-
visible on the other side of the rain-soaked
glass.

A gunshot. Alex wasn’t even aware that

Julius had fired, but he heard the bullet
twang into the side of a gray Peugeot and
saw the dent appear in the bodywork. Inside,
the driver and two passengers screamed and
threw themselves down. God knows what it
must have sounded like for them, with the
rain already pounding down on the roof. Per-
haps they thought they’d just been struck by
lightning. There was another shot and the
side mirror of the car next to Alex exploded.
Alex didn’t even try to dodge the bullets. He
lifted his own weapon, water dripping off the
muzzle and the back of his hand. It occurred
to him that from the day he had first joined
MI6, he had wanted a gun, but he had never

594/667

been allowed to have one. Well, that had all
changed now. Blunt and Mrs. Jones were
nowhere near. This was between him and
Julius Grief.

Julius had ducked out of sight, but sud-

denly he reappeared, running from one side
of the road to the other, firing twice more.
The windshield of a white van shattered and
the driver must have panicked with his foot
on the accelerator, because the vehicle shot
forward, smashing into the car in front. A
man got out of the second car, rising into the
rain in front of Alex, already shouting in Ar-
abic. Julius fired again and the man spun
sideways, a flower of blood sprouting out of
his shoulder. Alex saw him slump down be-
side his car, his face white. The driver of the
van was staring out, terrified. The beeping
was louder than ever. Alex held his pistol out
in front of him. Julius had fired four, maybe
five times. He couldn’t have many bullets
left.

595/667

There were only half a dozen cars between

them now. The two of them were like duel-
ists, trapped in a long line of traffic that
stretched out as far as the eye could see, in
front of them, behind them, all around them.
Water was streaming off Alex’s hair, pouring
down in front of his eyes. He could feel it
dripping off his chin. His shoes were full of
water. His clothes had turned into sodden
rags. He wiped his eyes with the back of his
arm, then took aim and fired for the first
time. The trigger moved easily—the half inch
that Gunter had described—but he was
shocked by the noise as the bullet detonated,
the way the Tokarev recoiled, almost dislo-
cating his wrist. His bullet slanted uselessly
into the air. A woman in a burka stared at
him from behind the window of a four-by-
four. Her eyes—all he could see of her—were
full of outrage. He had been standing close to
her when he fired. This was the middle of a
city. You couldn’t start a gunfight here!

596/667

But even if Alex had missed, the shot had
an effect. Julius took flight, ducking behind
the traffic, trying to find a way of escape.
Alex saw him cross from one side of the road
to the other, in front of one car, behind an-
other, disappearing behind an open-back
truck. There was a park over to one side and
next to it a sign advertising the Cairo Zoo. He
leapt over the barrier in the middle of the
road, past one line of traffic. Perhaps he
thought that the trees and bushes would give
him shelter.

He was in the outer lane, almost at the

grass verge, when the taxi hit him. This was
the only lane where the traffic was mov-
ing—heading toward the university. The taxi
hadn’t been doing more than ten miles per
hour, but it was enough. It struck Julius on
his left thigh and shoulder, sending him
spinning into the darkness. Alex saw him
fall, then get up again, then fall a second
time like a wounded animal. The driver

597/667

didn’t stop. He might not have realized what
he’d done. Or he could have seen the gun
that Julius was holding. Either way, he didn’t
want to get involved.

Alex stepped over the barrier and made it
over to the other side. Now he was on grass.
Was it his imagination or was the rain
already thinning out? It had been falling so
heavily that there simply couldn’t be much
more of it left in the sky. He crossed the
pavement and walked onto the lawn. Julius
had vanished from sight, but Alex knew he
couldn’t have gone far. He wasn’t walking
anymore. He was crawling.

Alex found him stretched out on the grass,
next to a flower bed. He was cradling his in-
jured shoulder with the gun lying next to
him. He had cut himself badly in the colli-
sion with the taxi—there was blood oozing
through his shirt. His hair was plastered
across his forehead. His eyes were wide and
staring. Alex walked up to him and stood

598/667

looming over him. The traffic was behind
them. The university campus and the
Assembly Hall were suddenly a long way
away. They were on their own.

“Are you going to kill me?” Julius

screamed. He didn’t sound afraid. His voice
was on the edge of hysteria. “Are you going
to shoot me?”

Alex said nothing. The Tokarev was at his

side, pointing down.

Julius drew a breath. It seemed to Alex

that he couldn’t have stood up, even if he’d
wanted to. “What happened to Gunter?” he
asked. “Don’t tell me he let you go!”

“Gunter is dead,” Alex said.
“And you think you’ve won? You’ve saved
the boring secretary of state and everyone is
going to be all over you? ‘Good old Alex has
done it again!’ But it’s not like that, is it?”
Julius writhed on the grass. His shoulder
might have been dislocated. There was a lot
of blood, mixing with the rain. “You’re not

599/667

going to shoot me,” he sniggered. “You can’t
shoot me. You don’t have it in you. You’re
just a goody-goody. Alex Rider, the reluctant
spy. And I’ll tell you what’s going to happen.
Very soon the police are going to come and
they’ll send me back to prison, but—you
know?—prison isn’t that bad. It’s just like be-
ing at school. And they can’t keep me there
forever. They’ll wait five years or ten years
and then they’ll set me free.

“But you’re never going to be free, are you,

Alex? Not after what we’ve done to you.
We’ve taken away the one thing that
mattered to you. We’ve killed your best
friend. Do you think she knew what had
happened when the bomb went off? Do you
think she died at once? You’ll be asking your-
self that question for the rest of your life, and
from now on you’ll always be on your own.
No parents. No friends. No Jack. Nothing.

“And look at you now! I can see how much

you hate me . . .”

“You’re wrong,” Alex said. “You’re nothing

600/667

to me.”

The rain was a mask, hiding his face. His

eyes were dark and empty. In his sodden
clothes, he was almost a skeleton of himself.
He turned and began to walk away.

That was when Julius went for the gun, his

hand scrabbling through the wet grass. He
lifted it and aimed.

Alex heard him. Some tiny movement.

Some instinct. He spun around.

Julius fired a single shot.
But Alex fired first.

22

SELKET

THE GRAY CHEVROLET SWEPT into the
university campus and pulled up in front of
the Assembly Hall. Joe Byrne stepped out in-
to a scene of chaos.

He had been less than half a mile away, at
the Four Seasons Hotel, watching the speech
on television, when the shot was fired and
his evening suddenly became very unpleas-
ant indeed. It was extremely unlikely that an
assassin could have slipped into the
Assembly Hall with the crowd. It was almost
impossible that he or she could have carried
a gun. Not if he had done his job properly.
His BlackBerry was already buzzing as he
stormed out to the waiting car. Of course, the

602/667

journey had been endless. It would have
been faster to walk.

And now here he was in the damp and the
darkness, trying to get answers to questions
he should never have had to ask. It had
stopped raining as suddenly as it had started,
but there were still huge puddles every-
where. At least it was a little less hot.

His second-in-command, a man named

Brenner, had seen him arrive and came over
to him. The man was experienced, a former
marine, and he didn’t waste any time.

“We have two fatalities, sir. I’m afraid Ed-
wards was shot dead outside the room where
the sniper was concealed. It was some sort of
control center high up in the roof. And
they’ve found a TV technician in one of the
OBUs. Cause of death is still unclear.”
“What about the secretary of state?”
“She’s fine, sir. We put the usual protocol

into place and got her out of the building,
unharmed. She’s already back at the

603/667

embassy, a little shaken up but otherwise
okay.”

“The weapon?”
“Arctic Warfare sniper rifle. The Egyptians
are hanging on to it, sir. Their man’s already
here.”

The Egyptians! Joe Byrne was looking old
and tired—as if all the cares of the world had
been dumped on his shoulders, which, in a
way, they had. If he wasn’t careful, this
whole thing would disintegrate into a who-
did-what spat, with each country blaming
the other. An armed assassin had walked
past fifteen CIA agents and ten times as
many Egyptian security men and police. That
meant an awful lot of egg on an awful lot of
faces.

As if on cue, a short, dark man with heavy

eyes and a mustache drooping all the way
down the sides of his chin came striding to-
ward them. Byrne recognized him at once.
His name was Ali Manzour and he was the

604/667

head of Jihaz Amn al Daoula, the Egyptian
State Security Service. He was wearing a
white striped suit and there were several
heavy gold rings on his fingers. Byrne no-
ticed that the Egyptian’s clothes were
drenched and he wondered if it was the rain.
It was just as likely to be sweat. For a man of
his size, Manzour was seriously overweight.

Even so, it was good news that he was

here. Byrne knew Manzour fairly well. He
was smart and efficient. Over a glass of raki
he could also be warm and goodhumored.
But right now, his stress levels were out of
control. Even as he approached, he took out
a bottle of white tablets and dry-swallowed a
handful of them.

“This is a disgrace,” he exploded. “This is

an outrage!”

“You told me the building was secure.”

Byrne had decided to play it straight down
the line. The buck stops here . . . and not
with me.

605/667

“The building was secure!”
“There was some sort of secret staircase
constructed in the walls,” Brenner said. “It
led all the way up.”

“I know nothing about this secret stair-

case!” Manzour exclaimed. “But I am telling
you now that this is a British plot. In my
opinion, it has all the fingerprints of the Brit-
ish secret service. The gun that the sniper
used is of British design. The British did not
wish the secretary of state to make this
speech. And it is a British citizen who was
found in the television van.”
“How do you know that?”
“We have his ID. His name is Erik Gunter.
And he does not work for Al Minya. The van
had been stolen from them. They know noth-
ing about him.”

Erik Gunter. Byrne’s heart sank. It was the
name that Alex had given him. He had given
instructions for the man to be kept under
surveillance, but somehow he must have

606/667

slipped through the net. “How did he die?”
he asked.

Manzour’s eyes bulged almost comically,

as if he couldn’t believe what he was about to
say. “My people say that he was stung by a
scorpion. But this is madness. There are no
scorpions in Cairo. There are no scorpions in
television broadcasting vans.” He signaled
frantically and a junior officer came running
over with a folding chair. He plumped him-
self down and took out a handkerchief, using
it to wipe his brow. It took him a few mo-
ments to regain his composure, but when he
spoke again it was in a softer voice. “I do not
understand any of this. I get the sense of a
great conspiracy. Let us give thanks that it
does not seem to have worked and that the
secretary of state is unharmed.”

A soldier appeared, walking hastily toward

them. He stopped in front of Manzour, sa-
luted, then bent forward and whispered a
few words. Manzour looked up, his face filled

607/667
with new alarm. “The business becomes even
more strange,” he said. “I have just been told
that a boy has been arrested at the main
gate.”

“A boy?”
“He was carrying a gun. Russian manufac-
ture. It appears to have been fired. He simply
walked up to my men and allowed himself to
be taken. He didn’t try to resist. And now he
is asking for you.”

“Where is he?” Suddenly Byrne knew. It
couldn’t be anyone else. “Can you ask your
man to describe him?”

Manzour turned to the soldier and there

was a brief exchange of words. “He is a Brit-
ish schoolboy. Aged fifteen. Light-colored
hair. He was wearing the uniform of one of
our international colleges.”

“The Cairo College of Arts and

Education?”

“Yes.” Manzour’s eyes narrowed. “You

know him?”

608/667

“Yes, I do. And it’s absolutely urgent that

we speak to him immediately . . . somewhere
private.”

Manzour nodded. He stood up, then no-

ticed the soldier, still waiting for instruc-
tions. “You heard what he said!” he bellowed.
“Fetch the boy. Bring him to me . . . in the
director’s office. Nobody is to speak to him.
Not even his name! I’ll see him at once.”

It was Alex Rider, of course. It couldn’t have
been anyone else. But Joe Byrne was
shocked by what he saw. Only a few days had
passed since the two of them had met, but in
that time the boy seemed to have aged ten
years. Alex didn’t seem to be physically hurt.
He had walked into the room, an office in-
side the Assembly Hall, and sat down
without limping or showing any obvious sign
of injury. He had seemed pleased to see
Byrne. But he looked haggard and ex-
hausted. His clothes, soaking wet, hung off a

609/667

body that was almost broken. The light had
gone out in his eyes. It was obvious to Byrne
that something terrible had happened. And
for the first time in his long career with the
CIA, he was almost afraid to ask.

Alex told his story briefly, as if he wanted
to get it over with as quickly as possible. He
explained that he had been kidnapped by a
man called Razim and taken to the desert.
There was a conspiracy, put together by
Scorpia, to blackmail the British govern-
ment. An exact look-alike of Alex had
entered the Assembly Hall with the party
from Cairo College and would have shot the
secretary of state if Alex hadn’t stopped him.

“A look-alike?” Manzour repeated the

words. From the expression on his face, he
hadn’t believed anything Alex had said.

“Yes. His name is Julius Grief. His father
was Dr. Hugo Grief. He had plastic surgery
that made him look like me.”

“And where is he now?”

610/667

“You’ll find him on the side of the road

leading down from the university.”

“Alive?”
“No. I killed him.”
Manzour turned to one of his officers and
snapped out a command in Arabic. The of-
ficer hurried out of the room.

Byrne waited until he had gone. “I don’t
think you should doubt anything Alex says,
Ali,” he muttered. “I know him. I’ve worked
with him twice in the past. You can trust
him.”

The use of his first name signaled

something to the Egyptian head of security.
He nodded slowly, then turned back to Alex,
examining him more carefully. “We found a
dead man in an outside broadcast van,” he
said.

Alex nodded. “That was Erik Gunter. He

was part of it. He was the head of security at
Cairo College. But he was also working for
Scorpia.”

611/667

“He was stung by a scorpion.”
“That’s right.” Alex didn’t offer any

explanation.

Byrne leaned forward. “Tell me,” he said.

“Where can we find this man . . . Razim?”

“I’ll tell you that,” Alex said. “But there’s a
condition. I want to come with you when you
take him out.”

Manzour shook his head. “Out of the ques-
tion. I have men who are experienced in this
sort of thing. Unit Triple Seven. They do not
need your help.” Unit 777 was the Egyptian
counterterrorism and special operations
unit. It had gotten its name from the year it
was founded—1977. It was based in southern
Cairo.

“I think you’ve done enough, Alex,” Byrne

agreed. “You can leave this to us.”

Alex shook his head. “Razim is in a fort

near the town of Siwa,” he said. “And he has
enough firepower to hold back an army. He’s
put mines in the sand all around him so even

612/667

if your men are experienced, they’ll be blown
to pieces before they get anywhere near.
Razim boasted to me about radar warning
systems and surface-to-air missiles. Do you
really want to get into a fight with him? If
you let me help you, you won’t have to.”
Neither man spoke, so Alex went on.
“There’s a helicopter waiting to take Julius

Grief back to the fort. I can show you where
it is and you’ll be able to hide twelve of your
men inside. If we move fast enough, we
might be able to catch Razim before he’s
heard what happened here tonight. I can
walk right in. He’ll think I’m Julius.”

“And then?” Manzour was suddenly

interested.

“Your men wait in the helicopter. There’s a

central control room. If I can get in there, I
can disable all the machinery in the fort. No
power. No missiles. No mines. Then you at-
tack. He still has about twenty or thirty
guards, but you’ll take them by surprise.”

613/667

“Everything depends upon your being able

to reach this control room,” Manzour said.
“It’s in an old bakery. I noticed it when I

was there. That’s the weak spot.”

There was a brief silence, then Byrne nod-

ded. “He’s right,” he said. “The question
is—is it too late for a news blackout?”

“The television stations have already

broadcast that an attempt was made on the
life of your secretary of state,” Manzour
replied. “But they have not reported if it was
successful. I can make sure that they say
nothing more tonight. That would give you
the time you need.”
“So it’s agreed?”
There was a movement at the door and the

officer whom Manzour had sent out re-
turned, chattering excitedly in Arabic. He
was staring at Alex as if he had just seen a
ghost. Manzour nodded and dismissed him.
“It’s true about the other boy,” he said. “He’s

an exact duplicate . . . apart from the bullet
hole in his head.”
Alex shrugged.
Manzour glanced at Byrne. “What do you

614/667

think?”

“A joint American-Egyptian operation. It’s
your country, but it was our politician. Six of
your men. Six of mine. Plus Alex, of course.”

“I agree. But we must move quickly.”
Byrne reached out and put a hand on

Alex’s shoulder. He had to know. “What did
Razim do to you, Alex?” he asked.

He felt Alex flinch, as if the contact was
painful to him. He didn’t answer Byrne’s
question. “Razim has an interest in pain,” he
said. “I think it’s time he experienced some.”
He stood up. “We shouldn’t be sitting here
talking. We should be on our way. And there
is one other thing.

“This time, I want a gun.”

615/667
The Sikorsky H-34 was waiting exactly where
Alex had said it would be, sitting in the dark-
ness beside a half-built office block. The pilot
didn’t even see them coming. One moment
he was sitting in the cockpit, waiting for Erik
Gunter and Julius Grief, the next he had
been dragged out and found himself spread-
eagled on the rubble with a gun pressed into
the back of his neck.

A signal was given and four jeeps pulled
in. Alex was in the first, sitting next to Joe
Byrne. There were a dozen men behind
them—all dressed in desert khakis and com-
bat boots and carrying a selection of Heckler
& Koch MP5 submachine guns, grenade
launchers, automatic pistols, and enough
weaponry to launch a small war. This was
the American-Egyptian assault team put to-
gether by the two intelligence chiefs. Alex
was still in his Cairo College uniform. He had
assumed it was what Julius would have been
wearing on the return flight.

616/667

Jihaz Amn al Daoula, the Egyptian intelli-
gence service, had so far managed to control
the night’s news. The radio and television
news stations had all reported that an at-
tempt had been made on the life of the sec-
retary of state, but it was still unconfirmed
whether she had been hurt or not. Of course,
there were thousands of witnesses who had
actually been there, but most of them were
unsure exactly what they had seen and the
CIA had quickly put out their own version of
events, which had the secretary of state in
the hospital in Cairo and the assassin still at
large. Razim might wonder why Erik Gunter
hadn’t reported back. But there was every
chance that, in the middle of the desert, he
was still in the dark—in every sense.

As Alex climbed out of the jeep, the man in

charge of the CIA team came over to him.
Alex recognized him. Fair haired, square
shouldered, blue eyes . . . it was Lewinsky,

617/667

the man who had tried to interrogate him in
the bell room.

“I guess I owe you an apology,” he said,
holding out a hand. “I never told you my
name. It’s Blake Lewinsky. I know now I was
way out of line.”

“That’s all right.” Alex shook the hand

briefly.

“I hope you don’t think I make a habit out
of this, but we need to get some information
out of the pilot.”

“What information?”
“He probably has a password, an identific-

ation signal—before he lands at Siwa. If we
don’t give it, we could get blown out of the
sky.”

“Are you going to waterboard him?” Alex

asked.

Lewinsky nodded, acknowledging the jibe.

“I think Manzour has other ideas,” he said.
“But I just thought I’d come over and warn

618/667

you. It’s not going to be pleasant. You may
not want to watch.”

Ali Manzour had gotten out of one of the

jeeps and had picked his way across the
rubble to the place where the helicopter pilot
was waiting. He crouched down and Alex
heard a few soft words, spoken in Arabic.
There was silence, followed by a sudden
scream. Standing next to Alex, Joe Byrne
grimaced and looked away.

A moment later, Manzour walked over to

them, wiping blood off his hands with his
handkerchief. At the same time, two of his
men dragged the unfortunate pilot away.
“It’s just as well we asked,” he said. “The
password is Selket. It is certainly appropri-
ate. Selket is an ancient Egyptian goddess of
death. She is also known as the scorpion
goddess.”

“You’re sure he wasn’t lying to you?” Byrne

asked.

619/667

“He did lie to me.” Manzour folded the
handkerchief and put it away. “But then I
asked him a second time and he told me the
truth.” He turned to Alex. “Everything now
depends on you, my friend. But I ask you
again, as the father of two sons, you are quite
certain you are prepared for this?”

Alex nodded.
“Then I wish you success.”
The twelve men climbed into the heli-

copter, arranging themselves with the Amer-
icans on one side and the Egyptians on the
other, like opposing baseball teams. Unit 777
had also provided a pilot to fly them into the
desert. Joe Byrne shook hands with Alex.
“Take care, Alex,” he said. “You look after
yourself.”

“Don’t worry about me,” Alex said.
Alex climbed into the helicopter. The

blades began to turn, picked up speed, and
finally became a blur. The helicopter rose

620/667

into the air. Byrne was left standing next to
Manzour.

“So that is the famous Alex Rider,” Man-

zour muttered.

“That’s right,” Byrne said.
“It is not my place to say it, but I think that

something very bad has happened to that
child. Did you see it in his eyes?”

Byrne nodded. He had already put a call in
to Alan Blunt in London and the two of them
would speak as soon as Alex returned . . . as-
suming, of course, that he did. Alex had told
him not to worry. But he was very worried
indeed.

He watched the helicopter until it had dis-

appeared into the night. Then Ali Manzour
clapped a hand on his shoulder and the two
men returned to the waiting cars.

23

A PINCH OF SALT

THE HELICOPTER SHUDDERED through
the night sky, carrying its load of twelve si-
lent men and one boy. As it reached the edge
of Cairo, the streetlights fell away and sud-
denly it was alone with the stars. Alex was
sitting at the very front, closest to the pilot,
and looking out through the cockpit window.
He was aware of the desert, vast and empty,
an infinite blackness below. He slumped
back and perhaps he dozed off—there was
little difference between being asleep and be-
ing awake—with the rotors beating out their
progress, hammering in his ears.

And then someone was tapping his arm

and he knew that they were there. How

622/667
much time had passed? It couldn’t have been
more than half an hour.

Lewinsky stood in front of him and Alex
could see the tension in his eyes. This was
the moment of truth. The fort with all its de-
fense systems was close by. If the original pi-
lot had lied to them, they were all dead.

The radio crackled into life. A voice rapped

out a single sentence, speaking in Arabic.
The pilot replied with one word.

“Selket.”
A long pause. They seemed to be hovering
in midair, as if they had come to a standstill.
Then more instructions. The pilot visibly re-
laxed. They had been given clearance to land.

Looking out, Alex could see the fort, illu-

minated by hundreds of bulbs. The whole
place was a hive of activity as Razim pre-
pared to make his getaway. There were men
crisscrossing the courtyard, carrying files
and boxes out of the various storerooms and
loading up the Land Rovers and open-top

623/667

trucks that were parked in a long line.
Nobody was going to be allowed any sleep
tonight. Guards were patrolling the parapets
and the rope walkway. All four towers were
manned. The huge gates were closed and
there were more armed men already watch-
ing the helicopter as it swept down out of the
sky.

And abruptly night became day as two

spotlights crashed on, slanting up into the
sky from opposite corners of the fort, captur-
ing the helicopter between them. Brilliant
light blazed into the cabin. Lewinsky winced,
covering his eyes. But the light gave Alex an
idea. The helicopter was expected. It was be-
ing watched. He knew that Razim would be
nervous, wondering about the long silence.
Well, he would give him a signal, set his
mind at rest.

Alex unbuckled himself and got up. The

door of the helicopter was operated by a
heavy lever and he pulled it down, then slid

624/667

the door open, allowing the blast of the en-
gines and the desert heat to come rushing in.
One of the CIA men called out to him, but
Alex ignored him. He knew what he was do-
ing and he was certain that Razim would be
watching. Holding on to a strap that dangled
from the ceiling, he leaned out of the heli-
copter, into the light, and waved at the fort,
grinning as if he had just done something
very clever. This was how Julius Grief would
have behaved. He wouldn’t have waited for
the helicopter to land.

Lewinsky understood what he was doing
and nodded his approval. Alex gesticulated
at the pilot, directing him toward the area of
sand that had been hardened to create a safe
landing pad. He saw the main gate swing
slowly open and a jeep burst out toward
them. So far so good. The password had
worked and perhaps Alex had been seen.
Razim was turning off his defenses, inviting
them in. There was a slight jolt as the

625/667

helicopter touched down. The pilot turned
the engine off. Lewinsky got up and came
over to him, taking care to keep out of sight.
“We’ll give you ten minutes.” He still had
to shout over the whine of the engine. “Then
we’re coming in.”

Alex nodded.
The Sikorsky had landed about two hun-

dred yards from the gate. Alex jumped down
onto the sand and waited for the jeep to ar-
rive. It was being driven by a bearded man in
long robes and a headdress. Alex recognized
him as the guard who had brought him food
on the night he had been captured. He pulled
up and Alex got in.

“Where are the others?” the driver asked.
He must have been referring to Gunter and
the pilot. He couldn’t possibly know that
there were twelve armed men waiting in the
Sikorsky.

“Take me to Razim,” Alex commanded.

The driver hesitated. “Now!”

626/667

The driver was used to obeying orders. He
shoved the gearshift forward and they set off,
bouncing across the track. The gates were
still open. No one had any idea that anything
was wrong. They entered the compound,
passing the prison block where Alex and
Jack had been held, heading toward Razim’s
house. Alex noticed the old bakery that was
also the control center. He had hoped that
the door would be open, but it was
closed—presumably locked—and there were
no windows. He could see light showing
through the cracks in the wood. There was
someone inside. Even now, they might be
turning on the mines that surrounded the
fort, and if anyone inside the helicopter so
much as sneezed, motion and sound detect-
ors would instantly pick them up.

The jeep pulled in. Alex threw open the

door and leapt out.

“Julius!”

627/667

Razim had come out of his house, a cigar-

ette in his hand, the smoke capturing the
glow of the electric lights as it curled upward.
He was wearing Western dress—jeans, a
loose shirt, and sandals. Perhaps this was
part of a new identity, but the round glasses
and close-cropped silver hair were unmistak-
able. The two of them met on the terrace
with the stone lion and the terra-cotta pots.
This was where they had had breakfast.
Razim examined Alex with a mixture of curi-
osity and annoyance.

“What happened?” he snapped. “I was ex-

pecting to hear from you an hour ago.”

So Julius had been given instructions to
radio in before he left Cairo. Alex couldn’t
have known that.

“She’s dead,” Alex said. He didn’t want to

talk too much to begin with. He was afraid of
giving himself away.

628/667

“The secretary of state is in the hospital. I
heard it on the radio. But they didn’t say she
was dead.”

“Then they’re lying.” Alex tapped the

middle of his forehead with a finger. “I hit
her here.”

“And Rider?”
Still acting as Julius, Alex smirked. “He

begged for mercy. He was crying at the end.
But Gunter let me watch when he killed him,
and that’s what I did.”
“Where is Gunter?”
“In the helicopter.”
“Why didn’t he come with you?”
“I don’t know, Razim. What’s the matter? I

thought you’d be pleased.”

Out of the corner of his eye, Alex saw the

main doors begin to swing shut, the two
halves folding toward each other. They
moved slowly and he knew it would take
them a full minute to close. That gave him a

629/667

minute to act. He turned his back on Razim
and began to saunter away.

“Where are you going?” Razim was un-

easy. He might not have guessed who he was
really talking to. But there was some inner
sense, some instinct that was shouting its
warnings. “What are you doing?” he
demanded.

“I’m going to bed.”
“We’re not going to bed. We’re leaving.”
“Then I’ll get my things.”
“But that’s not the way to your room!”
And that was what gave him away. Per-

haps Julius had been staying in Razim’s
house. But Alex was walking in the opposite
direction, heading past the well.

“Julius!” Razim called one last time.
Alex didn’t know what to do. Should he

just ignore him or turn around and continue
to bluff it out? Julius Grief would have been
angry. He would have expected rewards and
congratulations—not an interrogation. The

630/667

bakery was right ahead of him. The chimney
stood out in all the electric light. There were
guards all around, but so far none of them
had shown any interest in him.

“Stop him!” The two words came cutting
across the courtyard. Almost immediately,
Razim repeated them in Arabic. He had
guessed what had happened. He knew that
he had been tricked. Right in front of Alex,
standing between him and the control room,
two guards twisted around, untangling their
weapons. The gap between the two main
doors was narrowing one inch at a time. In
half a minute they would meet, cutting Alex
off.

He had no choice. He broke into a run,

veering around the well and away from the
control room. The outer wall was right in
front of him with a flight of stone stairs lead-
ing up. He took them two at a time. At the
same time, his hand came out of his pocket.
He was holding the grenade that had been

631/667

there from the moment he had left the heli-
copter. He had already worked the ring loose
with his index finger. He heard two shots
and almost felt the bullets as they thudded
into the steps just behind him. Who was
shooting? It didn’t matter. Nothing mattered
anymore except for finishing this business
once and for all. There were guards running
toward him from every direction. Everyone
was shouting. An alarm had gone off,
jangling in the night air. Alex was utterly fo-
cused on what he had to do. Two more steps
and he reached the top, standing on the
parapet with the fort on one side of him, the
desert on the other. A third shot whipped
past his shoulder. He was horribly exposed.
Everything depended on what happened
next.

The bakery was below him, but he was on

the same level as the chimney, about five
yards away. He could see the square opening
and could imagine the brickwork running all

632/667

the way down to the oven. He knew he only
had this one chance. There was a second
grenade in his other pocket, but he would
never get the chance to throw it. How much
time did he have left? How long had it been
since he had pulled out the pin? He put all
the noise out of his head. The shouting, the
clang of the alarm, the gunshots. He was
back at school. Tossing a Coke can into a bin.
Easy. Nothing to it.

He threw the grenade, saw it arc through
the air, knew that it was going to find its tar-
get, that it couldn’t miss.

The grenade disappeared into the chimney

without even touching the brickwork.

It took so long for the explosion to happen
that Alex was afraid that something had gone
wrong, that the grenade he had been given
was faulty. He was just scrabbling for the
second one when the blast came. The door of
the control room was blown off from inside
and a great blast of fire and smoke rushed

633/667
out into the courtyard. All the lights went out
and the darkness of the Sahara threw itself
onto the fort like a magician’s cloak. Alex
threw himself down as a machine gun
opened fire, splattering the brickwork be-
hind him. But even as he rolled, he saw that
the main gates hadn’t quite met, that they
were frozen with a gap in between. He knew
that Lewinsky and the others would have
heard the grenade go off and that they would
already be out of the helicopter, crossing the
desert. If he could survive for a minute
longer, he would no longer be on his own.
His eyes had already gotten used to the
darkness. The fort was illuminated by the
moon and the stars—but also by the flames
coming from the bakery. Alex twisted around
and saw Razim coming toward him, already
halfway up the staircase. He was holding a
gun. His whole body was bathed in a red
glow. He had once promised to send Alex to
hell and now he looked like the devil himself.

634/667
There was a crackle of machine-gun fire from
the main gate. Somebody screamed. The
Egyptians and the American agents had
arrived.

But it wasn’t over yet. Razim was climbing,

closing in on him. Suddenly the night
shimmered and white light washed over the
parapet as a backup generator kicked in.
Alex was in full sight. He reached behind
him and brought out the Tokarev that he had
taken from Gunter. It had already served
him well and he had demanded it back from
Ali Manzour. Somehow it seemed right. It
was the only gun Alex had ever called his
own. He had wanted it with him at the end.
There were eight rounds in the magazine.
Alex fired three of them at Razim, then ran
around the side of the parapet, trying to find
shadows, somewhere he would be less of a
target. He could see one of the towers ahead
of him and suddenly there was a guard
blocking his path, aiming with his rifle. Alex

635/667

took out the second grenade and threw it,
diving to the floor at the same time. He felt
the blast, covering his head with both arms,
and when he looked up, the way ahead was
clear. He glanced back. The Americans and
the Unit 777 men had reached the fort. Alex
saw them pouring through the gate, spread-
ing out, and taking up positions across the
courtyard. Razim’s guards had almost for-
gotten him. They knew that a far more dan-
gerous enemy had arrived.

Alex got to his feet. He didn’t know where

to go but he certainly didn’t want to stay
where he was. He was trapped on the narrow
ledge with the edge of the wall on one side
and the courtyard on the other. There was
shooting all around him. He glimpsed an ob-
ject flying through the air. It soared through
the open door of Razim’s house. There was
an explosion and the building was torn apart.
Two guards had been standing in front of it.
There was a burst of automatic fire and they

636/667

twisted around, throwing their weapons
away from them before collapsing to the
ground.

He came to the rope bridge and ran onto it

almost without thinking. The other side of
the compound looked darker and quieter,
and right now all he wanted to do was get out
of sight and leave all this to the special
forces. He saw three of Razim’s men rush
past underneath him. They seemed to have
given up the fight. They were running away.
One of the Americans appeared behind
them, wearing night-vision goggles. He
stopped, took aim, and picked them off one
at a time. Alex realized that the fight was
rapidly becoming a massacre. The invaders
were better trained and better equipped.
They’d had the advantage of surprise. And
with all the defenses down, the fort was
nothing more than a killing ground. He felt
sickened. He wanted this to be over.

637/667

And then a voice, surprisingly close to

him, spoke two words.

“Don’t move.”
Alex turned around. It was Razim. Some-

how he had caught up with Alex. He was
standing with one hand on the side of the
bridge, holding on to keep his balance. The
other hand held a gun. Alex brought around
his own gun. His legs were slightly apart. He
could feel himself swaying in the air.

“It’s you. I knew it was you. I knew it the
moment I saw you.” For the first time in his
life, Razim felt the full force of his emotions
as they rushed in, overwhelming him. Fury.
Bitterness. Despair. He was out of control,
unable to believe what had just occurred,
that everything he had planned—so carefully,
so brilliantly—had been suddenly taken away
from him. “What happened? How did you do
it?”

Alex didn’t answer. The fight was raging

on in the courtyard below them. Some of

638/667

Razim’s men were still firing, but it seemed
to Alex that the CIA and Triple Seven operat-
ives already had the upper hand. Either way,
Razim no longer cared. All the blood seemed
to have drained out of him. He was staring at
Alex with tears in his eyes.

“I beat you!” Razim whimpered. “I crushed

you. I killed your friend. And you still came
back. Well, this is where it ends, Alex. I will
finish you now. Not a slow death. Alas, we
have no time. But every death is the same for
the one who dies.”

He raised his gun.
“Alex!”
The shout came from below. Blake Lewin-
sky had seen what was about to happen and
reacted immediately, swinging his machine
gun around and firing upward. A volley of
bullets cut into the bridge between Alex and
Razim. Alex lost his balance as the ground
gave way beneath his feet. He flailed out,
catching his hand on the side, and cursed as

639/667

he dropped the gun. He saw Lewinsky taking
aim a second time. But then someone
opened fire from one of the towers and the
American spun around, a bloody stitchwork
erupting across his chest. Alex knew he had
been killed instantly. But he had done
enough.

Razim had fallen back, dazed. His gun had

dropped onto the bridge . . . it was right be-
side him. Alex sprang forward, using all the
coiled-up power in his legs. He reached
Razim and grabbed hold of him, his hands
closing around his throat. The bridge had al-
most been cut in half, but somehow it was
managing to support the two of them, and
for a moment they stood there, swaying in
midair. There was more gunfire and Alex saw
a guard topple out of one of the towers.
Razim reached out, trying to retrieve his gun.
Alex fell onto him, grabbing his arm, pulling
it away.

640/667

And then the bridge snapped. Alex felt the

gap open up. He could keep hold of Razim
and drop with him or he could let go and
save himself. At the last microsecond, self-
preservation took over. He fell backward,
wrapping himself in the severed ropes, twist-
ing them around his arm to tie himself in
place. Suddenly his feet were dangling in the
air. He felt the strain on his shoulders and
wrists. His body weight dragged down the
bridge where it had been severed, but the
section that was attached to the rooftop held
firm, preventing him from hitting the
ground.

Razim hadn’t been so fortunate. He had
been trying to reach the gun and had left it
too late to get a handhold. With a last des-
perate effort he snatched at the ropes, but
they had been whipped away and there was
nothing to prevent him falling into the court-
yard. If he had hit the ground, he would have
broken both his legs, but instead he plunged

641/667

into the mound of salt that his men had col-
lected from the desert. He went in feetfirst,
burying himself up to the waist. His glasses
were gone. His gun had landed nearby. He
was stuck fast.

All around him, the fighting had stopped.
His men were surrendering. The American
and Egyptian special forces were taking
control.

Razim moved. His eyes widened in fear as
he felt himself being sucked into the enorm-
ous pile of salt. Alex was dangling above him
on his half of the broken bridge. He was out
of reach.

“Help me,” Razim said.
Alex didn’t move. If he shifted his weight,

the rest of the bridge might collapse.

Razim sank into the salt. It was already up

to his arm-pits. And it was as if he knew
what was going to happen, that the game was
finally over. Somehow, in the last seconds of
his life, he managed to force a smile to his

642/667

face. To Alex it looked like a hideous grim-
ace. “Please . . . ,” he whimpered. “Help me!
Throw me a rope!”

The salt climbed higher.
Razim could feel the pressure crushing his

stomach and chest. The salt pile was like
some hideous creature, drawing him in, inch
by inch, swallowing him alive. “You cheated
me!” he screeched. “I was better than you. I
should have won!”

Alex did nothing. There was nothing he

could do.

With the last of his strength, Razim lunged

for the gun, stretching his arm across the
surface of the salt pile. His fingertips
brushed against it. But he wasn’t close
enough to pick it up. He gave up the struggle.
His arm was dragged beneath the surface.
The salt rose over his shoulders. Now only
his head and neck were visible, as if he had
been decapitated in the fight.

643/667

“Don’t move, Alex!” One of the CIA men

had reached the bridge and was crawling to-
ward Alex. “We’re coming to get you.”

Alex watched.
Something horrible was happening to
Razim. The salt had penetrated his skin,
working its way through the pores. It was as
if he was being cooked alive inside the huge
pile. White foam began to bubble out of his
mouth. It trailed out his eyes. Alex was re-
minded of a garden slug. He had heard it
said that slugs died horribly if they were
rolled in salt.
“Alex . . .”
It was Razim’s last word. His eyes were
completely white. He managed to swallow
one last breath, as if it would do him any
good, and then he was pulled beneath the
surface, disappearing altogether. For a brief
moment there was a dent in the surface
where he had been, then the salt poured in,
filling it.

644/667

“We’ve got you!”
Alex felt hands grab hold of him.
The fighting was over. Alex didn’t care. He

was completely exhausted.

As Alex was helped back down the stone

staircase, he saw Arab guards lined up
against the wall with their hands over their
heads. There were bodies everywhere. Two
Americans and a Triple Seven man had been
killed, along with Blake Lewinsky. But most
of the casualties were Razim’s people, lying
stretched out in the bloodstained sand.

Someone gave Alex a bottle of water. “Are

you okay?”

Alex nodded.
“Stay here. We’ve radioed Cairo. It’s over

now. There are more people on the way.”
But ten minutes later, Alex had disap-

peared and at first there was panic among
the special forces fighters as they searched
for him, wondering what had happened. It
was only much later that they found him,

outside the fort, on his own, kneeling beside
a burned-out car.

645/667

24

DEPARTURES

IT WAS TIME TO GO.

Alan Blunt had reached his last day as
head of MI6 Special Operations. He had
spent the morning packing his personal pos-
sessions. It hadn’t taken him very long. In
fact, they all fit inside a small shoe box that
now sat in the middle of his otherwise empty
desk. Of course, what he would really be tak-
ing from here would be his memories, and he
certainly had enough of those. It had briefly
occurred to him that he might write a mem-
oir—it was very much the trend with politi-
cians and departing civil servants. But of
course it was out of the question. It was part
of the job description that he should take his

647/667

secrets to the grave. And if he tried to sell
them, he might arrive there sooner than he
had expected.

He took one last look outside. It was going
to be a hot summer. Liverpool Street was un-
usually bright with the sun flaring off the
plate glass windows. There was a pigeon half
asleep on the ledge outside. Do birds sleep?
Blunt tapped on the glass and it flew away.
He had once discussed with Smithers the
possibility of using homing pigeons to listen
in on foreign ambassadors. Homing pigeons
with homing devices around one leg. The
Covert Weapons Section had put in a feasib-
ility study, but nothing had come of it. Blunt
had seen Smithers a few weeks ago, after his
return from Cairo. There had been a formal
debriefing. The two of them had not said
good-bye.

Blunt went back to his desk and rested a
hand on the shoe box. He was tempted to
throw it in the garbage. There was nothing

648/667

inside that he really wanted. Suddenly he
just wanted to be out of here. In two days he
was leaving for Venice, the first stopping
point on a six-week tour of Europe. His wife
was coming with him. It would be the longest
time the two of them had spent together
since the day they were married.

The door opened and Mrs. Jones came in.
The new head of Special Operations, just as
he had expected. She seemed surprised to
see him, but that couldn’t be the case, be-
cause she had actually asked for a final meet-
ing before he left. For a moment the two of
them looked at each other uneasily over the
desk. It occurred to Blunt that they should
swing around. Her place was behind it now.

He moved back to the window and sat

down in an armchair that looked antique but
which was actually modern. Like so many
things in this building, it wasn’t what it
seemed. Mrs. Jones perched on the edge of
the desk. She was wearing black, a smart suit

649/667

with a silver chain around her neck. She was
sucking one of her peppermints. That was
bad news. Blunt knew her habits. She sucked
peppermints when she had something un-
pleasant to say, as if to wipe away the taste of
the words.

“Congratulations,” Blunt said. He had only

been officially told about her new appoint-
ment that day. “I wish you every success.”
“Thank you.” Mrs. Jones nodded briefly.

“Have you made plans?”

“Travel. A little golf perhaps. The BBC

have asked me to join the board.”

“I know. I recommended you.” She

paused, her hands resting on the surface of
the desk behind her. “Before you leave, we
have to talk about Alex.”

“Yes. I thought that might be on your

mind. How is he?”

“I’m afraid he’s not at all well. What do

you expect?”

650/667

“It was very unfortunate. The loss of that

housekeeper of his.”

“Jack Starbright was more than a house-
keeper. She was his closest friend. She was
the only adult friend he had. Certainly the
only adult he could ever trust.”

“Nobody could have foreseen what would

happen.”

“Is that really true?” Mrs. Jones walked

behind the desk and sat down. She had taken
Blunt’s chair, and the message was clear. She
was taking his authority too. “Scorpia set a
trap for us and we walked straight into it.
Levi Kroll turning up in the River Thames
with an iPhone conveniently lodged in his
top pocket. A handful of clues leading us to
the Cairo International College. They took us
for fools and that’s how we behaved. If it
hadn’t been for Alex, the secretary of state
would be dead and we’d be at war with the
Americans. And all this for the Elgin
marbles! It almost beggars belief.”

651/667

Blunt spread his hands. “I take full re-

sponsibility. You don’t need to worry. You
can start your new job with a clear
conscience.”

“I wish that were the case. But I agreed to

use Alex Rider from the very start . . . and
I’m talking now about the Stormbreaker af-
fair more than a year ago. I may have had my
doubts about bringing a fourteen-year-old
boy into our world, but I ignored them. He
was too useful to us. And in that respect, I’m
as guilty as you.”

Blunt was impressed. There was a quality

to his former deputy, a steel in her voice, that
he had never noticed before. “How bad is
he?” he asked.

“As I’m sure you know, he killed Julius

Grief,” Mrs. Jones said. “That was something
else, by the way. We should never have ac-
cepted his supposed death in Gibraltar and
I’ve already given instructions for the whole
facility to be shut down. Anyway, Alex had

652/667

never had a gun before, but this time he used
it. He was forced to shoot Julius in cold
blood. I don’t think he can be blamed. Unfor-
tunately, the effect on him has been
traumatic.”

She fell silent for a moment. Blunt waited.
“I’ve talked to the psychologists and they
say that for Alex it was almost as if he were
killing himself. After all, the two of them
were identical. What it boils down to is that
part of Alex Rider died with Julius Grief. He
shot himself . . . or perhaps a part of himself
that should never have been born.”

“Maybe that was the part that we created,”

Blunt suggested.

“Maybe it was. But as far as I’m concerned,
the file on Alex Rider is now closed. It was an
experiment that we should never have at-
tempted. There’s no point raking over it all
now, but we were wrong—both of us. It will
never happen again.”

“Is that why you wanted to see me?”

653/667

“No. There’s one other thing you have to
answer for before you leave. The attack on
Alex Rider at Brookland School.” Mrs. Jones
waited for Blunt to respond. He said nothing.
He showed nothing more than polite in-
terest. She wasn’t surprised. “A gunman was
sent to shoot Alex,” she went on. “But curi-
ously, Erik Gunter never mentioned it. Nor
did Razim. One might almost think they
knew nothing about it. And there are two
other questions that have puzzled me. The
first one is very simple. Why did the sniper
miss? It’s true that Alex noticed him and re-
acted quickly, but even so, the bullet hit his
desk, not his chair. It’s as if the sniper wasn’t
aiming at him at all.

“And then there’s the business at the

Wandsworth Park industrial estate. Alex
overheard the gunman talking to the pilot of
the helicopter. “It was fine. Mission accom-
plished.” That was what he said. Was he

lying? Or was he actually telling the truth?
Had he achieved what he set out to do?”

“Where are you going with this?” Blunt

654/667

asked.

“I think you know exactly where I’m going.

You recruited the sniper and the helicopter
pilot. You arranged the whole thing. Scorpia
wanted to lure Alex Rider to Cairo and they
set up the trap. But you had to make sure
that he fell into it. If Alex believed he was in
danger—worse than that, that his friends
might also be in danger too—he would have
no choice but to leave. I’ve traced the owner-
ship of the Robinson R22, by the way, so
there’s no point denying it.”

“I wouldn’t insult your intelligence by

denying it, Mrs. Jones,” Blunt replied.
“What happened to the pilot and the

sniper?”

“They survived. They broke a few bones.
Nothing serious. They’re both recuperating
on the Isle of Man.”

655/667

“Do you have any idea how serious this is?
You arranged a shooting in a British school!
You brought half of London to a standstill
and you’ve wasted thousands of hours of po-
lice time—and all so you could get your way.
And you were wrong all along. Scorpia
tricked you.”

Alan Blunt took off his glasses, wiped them
with a handkerchief, then put them on again.
His eyes were suddenly tired. “Who knows
about this?” he asked.

“Only me.”
“And what do you intend to do?”
There was a brief silence.
“Nothing.” Mrs. Jones might have made
the decision before she came into the room.
Or she might have made it just then. It made
no difference. “I can’t separate myself from
the responsibility in all this,” she went on. “I
can understand why you did what you did.
And I won’t stand in the way of your knight-
hood. So go to Venice. Enjoy your vacation.

656/667

We’ve been together for a very long time. We
won’t see each other again.”

Blunt stood up. He went over to the desk
and laid his hands on the shoe box. But he
didn’t pick it up. He looked straight at Mrs.
Jones. “I’ll say two things if I may,” he said.

“Go ahead.”
“Try not to forget that some good came out

of all this. I understand that Scorpia has
disbanded.”

“Scorpia is a laughingstock,” Mrs. Jones

agreed. “They’ll never work again. Several of
their personnel—including Zeljan
Kurst—have been arrested, and the interna-
tional police forces are cooperating to track
down the rest of them. They took on Alex
three times and three times they failed. That
was the end of them.”

“Well, one might argue that made it all

worthwhile.”

“One might. What else?”

657/667

“Only this. Let me give you some parting

advice, Mrs. Jones.” Blunt lifted the shoe
box. Now the desk was entirely hers. “The
Brookland business was a mistake, as it
turned out. But I had no hesitation in arran-
ging it. And if you are going to succeed in
this job, Mrs. Jones—my job—then there will
come a time when you will have to do the
same. Of course, you know that. You know
the sort of decisions we’ve had to make. But I
wonder if you know what it’s like to live with
them? A German philosopher once wrote
that he who fights monsters must take care
that he doesn’t become one himself. Our
work is often monstrous. I’m afraid there’s
no escaping it.”

Mrs. Jones considered this and nodded.

There was nothing more to say.

“Good-bye, Alan.”
“Good-bye, Mrs. Jones.”
Blunt took the shoe box and left the room,

closing the door behind him.

658/667

“Virgin Airways Flight 20 to San Francisco
has begun boarding. Will all passengers
please proceed directly to Gate 3.”

Sitting in the Virgin business-class lounge

at Heathrow, Edward Pleasure closed the
book he had been reading and put it away.

“Time to go,” he said.
“Okay.”
Alex Rider was sitting next to him, dressed
in jeans and a dark jersey. He had a carry-on
bag for the flight, packed with books and
computer games for his Nintendo DSi. He
had checked in two other suitcases, and they
contained just about everything he now
owned. The house in Chelsea had been
cleared and was on the market to be sold.
Alex had taken his clothes, a few photo-
graphs, his tennis racquet, and a soccer ball
signed by members of the Chelsea squad that
he had once won in a raffle. He could have
taken more. Edward had offered to arrange a

659/667

whole crate to be shipped out. But Alex had
preferred to leave it all behind.

He was going to live in San Francisco with

Edward and Elizabeth Pleasure—and of
course with Sabina. The two of them had
spoken on the phone and she was thrilled he
was coming. “It’ll be great,” she had said.
“We’ll be together all the time. And you’ll
love it here, Alex. I know you will. I’ve
already got your room ready for you. And
Mum can’t wait to see you.”

Edward and Elizabeth were now legally re-
sponsible for Alex. It was almost as if he had
been adopted.

Curiously, it had been Mrs. Jones who had
suggested it. Perhaps it had been her way of
making up for everything that had happened,
but she had called Edward Pleasure even be-
fore Alex had arrived back in England. She
had sorted out the legal work and had man-
aged to get Alex a full-time visa to stay in
America. MI6 had a manor house—part

660/667

hospital, part rest home—in fifty acres of
parkland down in the New Forest, and Alex
had stayed there while the arrangements
were being made. Edward had finally arrived
two days ago. And now they were on their
way.

Edward Pleasure worked as a journalist,
and following the success of his book about
Damian Cray, he was also a wealthy man. He
was in big demand in America, writing for
several of the major newspapers and
magazines. He owed a lot of his success to
Alex. After all, it had been Alex who had dis-
covered the truth about Cray in the first
place. And Alex had ties with the family that
went far beyond his friendship with Sabina.
He had stayed with them in Cornwall, in
Scotland, and in the south of France—where
Edward had nearly died when a bomb ex-
ploded in his house. He walked with a limp
and still needed painkillers, but he hadn’t let
what had happened to him destroy his life.

661/667
He had a beautiful home in Pacific Heights, a
quiet, tree-lined area of the city. Sabina was
at the local high school. Her mother cooked
and looked after the garden and walked the
dog (they had recently taken on a chocolate
Labrador) and was writing a book. It had
taken them time to get used to life on the
other side of the world, but they were com-
fortable and happy.

And Alex was going to join them, to be

part of their family. Edward examined him
as the two of them left the lounge and began
to walk to the departure gate. He knew very
little about what had happened out in Egypt.
It wasn’t just that Mrs. Jones had been un-
willing to tell him. He just didn’t want to ask.
Jack Starbright was dead. He knew that
much and understood what it meant to Alex.
He also knew that Alex’s spying days really
were behind him, that MI6 would never con-
tact them again.

662/667

Alex had barely spoken during the time

they had been together. There was
something terrible about the silence that had
taken hold of him like some sort of illness.
He showed no interest in food and barely
ate. If he was asked something, he would re-
spond politely. But he never volunteered
anything and there were long minutes when
he didn’t seem to be in the room, when his
eyes were somewhere else. At their first
meeting, it seemed to Edward that
something inside Alex had broken and would
never be repaired. He even wondered if he
was doing the right thing, taking responsibil-
ity for him, bringing him into his home.

But even in the past forty-eight hours he

had noticed small differences. Alex was more
alert. His pace was quickening as he made
his way down the long tunnel that connected
with the plane, as if he was in a hurry to be
on his way. He had overheard Alex talking to

663/667

Sabina on the phone and knew that he was
looking forward to seeing her.

Was it too much to hope that Alex was

already healing? Suddenly Edward was de-
termined. It would all work out. Alex would
be part of a family, something that he had
never experienced in his entire life. He would
be thousands of miles away from the forces
that had done so much to damage him and
he would leave them far behind. It was a
fresh start. He would finally be what he had
always wanted to be. An ordinary boy.

Twenty minutes later, they were sitting

next to each other with their seat belts
fastened. Alex was next to the window, look-
ing out. The plane had reached the start of
the runway and was waiting there while the
pilots made the final checks.

“Are you feeling all right, Alex?” Edward

asked.

Alex nodded. “Yes. I’m fine.”

The engines roared. The plane rolled for-

ward, picking up speed, then rose into the
sky.

664/667

ALSO BY ANTHONY

HOROWITZ

THE ALEX RIDER NOVELS:

Stormbreaker
Point Blank
Skeleton Key
Eagle Strike

Scorpia
Ark Angel
Snakehead

Crocodile Tears

THE DIAMOND BROTHERS MYSTERIES:

The Falcon’s Malteser

Public Enemy Number Two

Three of Diamonds
South by Southeast

Horowitz Horror

666/667

More Horowitz Horror

Bloody Horowitz

The Devil and His Boy

@Created by PDF to ePub

