ONE NIGHT @ THE CALL CENTER

—CHETAN BHAGAT
         [Typeset by: Arun K Gupta]

This is someway my story. A great fun, inspirational One!

Before you begin this book, I have a small request. Right here, note down three 
things. Write down something that

i)
ii)
iii)

you fear,
makes you angry and
you don’t like about yourself.

 Be honest, and write something that is meaningful to you.

Do not think too much about why I am asking you to do this. Just do it.

One thing I fear:
__________________________________
One thing that makes me angry:
__________________________________
One thing I do not like about myself:
__________________________________

Okay, now forget about this exercise and enjoy the story. 

Have you done it?
If not, please do. It will enrich your experience of reading this book.
If yes, thanks Sorry for doubting you. Please forget about the exercise, my doubting 
you and enjoy the story.

PROLOGUE 
_____________

The  night   train   ride   from   Kanpur  to   Delhi  was   the  most  memorable 
journey of my life. For one, it gave me my second book. And two, it is not 
every day you sit in an empty compartment and a young, pretty girl walks in.

Yes, you see it in the movies, you hear about it from friend’s friend but 
it never happens to you. When I was younger, I used to look at the reservation 
chart stuck outside my train bogie to check out all the female passengers near 
my seat (F-17 to F-25)is what I’d look for most). Yet, it never happened. In 
most cases I shard my compartment with talkative aunties, snoring men and 
wailing infants.

But this night was different. First, my compartment was empty. The 
Railways bad just started this new summer train and nobody knew about it. 
Second, I was unable to sleep.

I had been to IIT Kanpur for a talk. Before leaving, I drank four cups of 
coffee in the canteen while chatting with students. Bad idea, given that it was 
going to be boring to spend eight insomniac hours in an empty compartment. I 
had no magazines or books to read. I could hardly see anything out of the 
window in the darkness. I prepared myself for a silent and dull night. It was 
anything but that. 

She  walked in  five minutes  after the  train  bad left  the  station.  She 

opened the curtain of my enclosure and looked puzzled. 

‘Is coach A4, seat 63 here?’ she said.
The yellow light bulb in my compartment was a moody one. It flickered 

‘Hub…’ I said when I saw her face. It was difficult to withdraw from the 

as I looked up at her.

gaze of her eyes.

‘Actually it is. My seat is right in front of you,’ she answered her own 
question and heaved her heavy suitcase onto the upper berth. She sat down 
on the berth opposite me, and gave out a sigh of relief.

‘I climbed onto the wrong coach. Luckily the bogies are connected,’ she 
said, adjusting her long hair that ended n countless ringlets. From the corner 
of   my   eye   I   tried   to   look   at   her.   She   was   young,   perhaps   early   to   mid-
twenties. Her waist-length hair had a life of its own: a strand fell on her 
forehead repeatedly. I could no see her face clearly, but I could tell one thing
—she was pretty. And her eyes—once you looked into them, you could not 
turn away. I kept my gaze down.

She re-arranged stuff in her handbag. I tried to look out of the window. 

It was completely dark.

‘So, pretty empty train,’ she said after ten minutes.
‘Yes,’ I said. ‘It’s the new holiday special. They just started it, without 

telling people about it.’

‘No wonder. Otherwise, trains are always full at this time.’

‘It will get full. Don’t worry. Just give it a few days,’ I said ad leaned 

forward, ‘Hi. I am Chetan by the way, Chetan Bhagat.’

“Hi,’ she said and looked at me for a few seconds. ‘Chetan…I don’t 

know, your name sounds familiar.’

Now   this   was   cool.   It   meant   she   had   heard   of   my   first   book.   I   am 
recognized rarely. And of course, it had never happened with a girl on a night 
train.

‘You   might   have   heard   of   my   book,   Five   Point   Someone.   I’m   the 

author,’ I said.

‘Oh yes,’ she said and paused. ‘Oh yes, of course. I’ve read your book. 

The three underperformers and the prof’s daughter one, right?’ she said.

‘Yes. So how did you like it?’
‘It was all right.’
I   was   taken   aback.   Man,   I   could   have   done   with   a   little   more   of   a 

compliment here.

‘Just all right?’ I said, fishing a bit too obviously.
‘Well…’ she said and paused.
‘Well what?’ I said after ten seconds.
‘Well. Yeah, just all right… okay okay types,’ she said.
I kept quiet. She noticed the expression of mild disappointment on my 

face.

Kanpur?’

give a talk there.’

‘Anyways, nice to meet you Chetan. Where are you coming from? IIT 

‘Yes,’ I said, my voice less friendly than a few moments ago. ‘I had to 

‘Oh really? About what?’
‘About my book—you know the just okay-okay type one. Some people do 
want to hear about it,’ I said, keeping a sweet tone to sugarcoat my sarcasm-
filled words.

‘Interesting,’ she said and turned quite again.
I was quite too. I didn’t want to speak to her anymore. I wanted my 

empty compartment back.

The   flickering   yellow   light   above   was   irritating   me.   I   wondered   if   I 

should just shut it off, but it was not that Late yet.

‘What’s the next station? Is it a non-stop train?’ she asked after five 

minutes, obviously to make conversation.

‘I don’t know,’ I said and turned to look out of the window again even 

though I couldn’t see anything in the darkness.

‘Is everything okay?’ she asked softly.
‘Yes, why?’ I sad, the tone of my ‘why’ giving away that everything was, 

in fact, not okay.

‘Nothing. You’ve upset about what I said about your book right?’
‘Not really,’ I said.
She laughed. I looked at her. Just like her gaze, her smile was arresting 
too.  I  knew   she   was laughing  at   me,  but  I  wanted her  to keep  smiling.   I 
dragged my eyes away again.

‘Listen. I know your book did well. You are like this youth writer and 

everything. But at one level… just forget it.’

‘What?’ I said.
‘At one level, you are hardly a youth writer.’
I turned silent and looked at her for a few seconds. Her magnetic eyes 

had a soft but insistent gaze.

‘I thought I wrote a book about college kids. That isn’t youth?’ I said.
‘Yeah right. So you wrote a book on IIT. A place where so few people 
get to go. You think that represents the entire youth? She asked and took out 
a box of mints from her bag. She offered me one, but I declined. I wanted to 
get this straight.

‘So what are you trying to say? I had to start somewhere, so I wrote 
about my college experiences. And you know the story is not so IIT-specific. It 
could have happened anywhere.   I mean, just for that you are trashing my 
book.’

‘I am not trashing it. I am just saying it hardly represents the Indian 

youth,’ she said and shut the box of mints.

‘Oh  really…   ‘I   began,   but  was   interrupted  by  the   noise   as  the   train 

passed over a long bridge.

to smoother tracks. 

We didn’t speak for the next three minutes, until the train had returned 

“what represents the youth?’ I said.
“I   don’t   know.   You’re   the   writer.   You   figure   it   out,’   she   said,   and 

brushed aside a few curls that had fallen on her forehead.

‘That’s not fair,’ I said, ‘that is so not fair.’ I sounded like a five-year-
old throwing a tantrum. She smiled as she saw me grumbling to myself. A few 
seconds later, she spoke again.

‘Are you going to write more books?’ she said.
‘I’ll try to,’ I said. I wasn’t sure if ever wanted to talk to her again.
‘So what is it going to be? IIMs this time?’ she said.
‘No.’
‘Why not?’
‘Because it does not represent the country’s youth.’
She stared laughing.
‘See, I am taking feedback. And now you laugh at me,’ I said.
‘No, no, she said. ‘I am not laughing at you. Can you stop being so over-

sensitive?’

my face away.

‘I am not over-sensitive. I just want to take feedback,’ I said and turned 

‘Well, well now. Let me explain. See, I just felt the whole IITian thing is 
cool and all, but what does it all mean in the broader sense? Yes, the book 
sells and you get to go to IIT Kanpur. But is that what it is all about?’ she said.

“Well, then what is it about?’
‘If you want to write the youth, shouldn’t you talk about young people 
who   really  face   challenges?  I   mean  yes,  IITians  face   challenges,   but   what 
about the hundred and thousand of others/’

‘Like whom?’
‘Just   look   around   you.   What   is   the   biggest   segment   of   your   facing 

challenges in modern India?’

‘I don’t know. Student?’
‘Not those, Mr. Writer. Get out of the student-campus of your first book 
now. Anything else you see that you find strange and interesting? I mean, 
what is the subject of your second novel?’

I turned to look at her carefully for the first time. Maybe it was the time 
of night, but I kid you not, she was one of the most beautiful women I had 
ever seen. Everything about her was perfect. Her face was like that of a child. 
She wore a bindi, which was hard to focus on as her eyes came in the way.

I tried to focus on her question.
‘second novel? No, haven’t though of a subject yet,’ I said.
‘Really? Don’t you have any ideas?’
‘I do. But nothing I am sure about.’
‘Inte…resting, she drawled.’ Well, just bask in your first book success 

then.’

We kept quiet for the next half an hour. I took out the contents of my 
overnight bag and rearranged them for no particular reason. I wondered if it 
even made sense to change into a night suit. I was not going to fall asleep 
anyway.   Another   train   noisily   trundled   past   us   in   the   opposite   direction, 
leaving silence behind.

‘I might have a story ides for you,’ she said, startling me.
‘Huh?’ I was wary of what she was going to say. For no matter what her 

idea was, I had to appear interested.

‘What is it?’
‘It is a story about a call center.’
‘Really?’ I said. ‘Call centers as in business process outsourcing centers 

“Yes, do you know anything about them?’
I thought about it. I did know about call centers, mostly from my cousins 

or BPOs?’

who worked there.

“Yes, I know a little bit,’ I said. ‘Some 300,000 people work in the 
industry. They help US companies in the sales, service and maintenance of 
their operations.  Usually  younger people work there  in night shifts. Quite 
interesting, actually.’

‘Just interesting? Have you ever thought of what all they have to face?’ 

she asked, her voice turning firm again.

“Uh, not really…’ I said.
‘Why? They aren’t the youth? You don’t want to write about them?’ she 

said, almost scolding me.

‘Listen, let’s not start arguing again…’
‘I’m not arguing. I told you that I have a call center story for you.’
I looked at my watch. It was 12.30 a.m. A story would not be such a bad 

ides to kill time, I thought. 

‘Let’s hear it then, I said.

‘I’ll tell you. But I have a condition,’ she said.
‘Condition?’ I was intrigued. ‘What? That I don’t tell it to anyone else?’ I 

‘No. Just the opposite in fact. You have to promise me to writ it as your 

asked.

second book.’

She heaved a sigh and took a sip from her bottle of mineral water. 
‘You see,’ she said, ‘it wasn’t like any other night. It was the night 

there was a phone call.’

‘What I said, almost falling from my seat.
Wow!   Now   that  was   something.   Okay,  so   I  meet  a   girl   who   appears 
interesting and has a nice pair of eyes and looks like she can tell me a story to 
kill time. However, it does not mean I will spend two years of my life turning 
it into a book.

‘Like a full book? Are you kidding? I can’t promise that. It’s a lot of 

work,’ I said.

‘Up to you,’ she said and turned silent.
I waited for ten seconds. She did not speak.
‘Can’t I decide after you tell me the story?’ I said. ‘If it is interesting, I 

may even do it. But how can I decide without listening to it?’

‘No. it is most about choice. If I tell you, you have to write it,’ she said.
‘A whole book…?’ I asked again.
‘Yes. Like it’s your own story. In first person—just like in your first 
book. I’ll give you the contacts of the people in the story. You can meet them, 
do your research, whatever it takes, but make it your second book.’

‘Well then, I think it’s better if you don’t tell me,’ I said on her berth, 
and then arranged her pillow and blanket. I guesses she was planning to go to 
sleep.

I checked my watch again. It was 1:00 a.m., and I was still wide awake. 
This was a non-stop train, and there were no stations to look forward to until 
Delhi in the morning. She switched off the flickering yellow light. Now the 
only light in the compartment was an errie blue one; I couldn’t figure out 
where the bulb was. It felt strange, like we were the only two people in the 
universe.

As she was sliding under her blanket, I asked, ‘What is the story about? 

At least tell me a little bit more.’

‘Will you do it then?’
I shrugged in the semi-darkness. ‘Can’t say.  Don’t tell me the story yet

—just tell me what it is about.’

She nodded and sat up. Folding her legs beneath her, she began talking. 
‘All right, she said, ‘It is a story about six people in a call center as one 

‘Just one night? Like this one?’ I interrupted.
‘Yes, one night. One night at the call center.’
‘You sure that can be a full book? I mean, what is so special about this 

night.’

night?’

‘What?’ I said and burst out laughing. ‘So a call center gets a phone cal. 

That is the special part?’

She did no smile back. She waited fro me to stop laughing and then 
continued as if I hadn’t said anything. ‘You see, it wasn’t an ordinary phone 
call. It was the night…it was the night there was a phone call from God.’

Her words had me spring to attention.
‘What?’
‘You heard me. That night there was a phone call from God,’ she said.
‘What exactly are you talking about?’
‘I just told you what the story was about. You asked, remember?’ she 

said.

‘And then… how… I mean…’
‘I’m not telling you anymore. Now you know what it’s about, if you want 

to hear the story, you know my condition.’

‘That is a tough condition,’ I said.
‘I know. Up to you,’ she said and lifted her blanket again. She lay down 

and closed her eyes.

Six  people.  One night, call center.  Call  from God.  The phrases kept 
repeating in my head as another hour passed. At 2:00 a.m. she woke up to 
have a sip of water.

‘Not sleeping?’ she asked, with eyes only half open.
Maybe there was a voltage problem, but this time even the blue light in 

the compartment started flickering.

‘No, not sleepy at all, I said.
‘Okay, goodnight anyway, she said, and began to lie down again.
‘Listen,’ I said. Got up. Sit down again.’
‘Huh?’ she said, rubbing her eyes. ‘Why? What happened?’
‘Nothing. You tell me what happened. Tell me the story’ I said.
‘So you will write it?’
‘Yes,’ I said, with a bit of hesitation.
‘Good,’ she said, and sat up again. The cross-legged position was back.
The rest of the night, she told me the story that begins from the next 
page. It is a story about six people, three guys and three girls who worked as 
the Connexions Call Center. I choose to tell the story through Shyam’s eyes. 
This is because, after I met him, I found him the most similar to me as a 
person. The rest of the people and what happened tat night—well, I will let 
Shyam tell you that.

FROM #29

Otherwise? Esha Said.
‘Otherwise we die,’ Vroom said.
We stayed quiet for a minute.
‘Everyone dies one day,’ I said, just to break the silence.
‘Maybe it is simpler this way. Just end life rather than deal with it,’ 

Vroom said.

I nodded. I was nervous and I was glad Vroom was making small talk.
‘My main question is– what if no one finds us even after we die. What 

‘The   vultures   will   find   us.   They   always   do.   I   saw   it   on   Discovery 

happens then?’ Vroom said.

Channel,’ I said.

‘See, that makes me uncomfortable. I don’t like the idea of sharp beaks 
rearing my muscles, cracking my bones and ripping me to shreds. Plus, my 
body will be smelling like hell. I’d rather be burnt in a dignified manner and 
go up in that one last ultimate puff of smoke.’

‘Can you guys stop this nonsense? At least be silent,’ Esha said and 

folded her arms.

Vroom smiled at her. Then he turned to me. “I don’t thinking Esha will 
smell too much. Her Calvin Klein perfume will keep her carcass fresh for 
days.’

#1

I was splashing my hands in the water pointlessly in the sea. I can’t even 
swim in a pond, let alone in the Indian Ocean. I was in the water while my 
boss Bakshi was in a boat next to me. He was pushing my head down in the 
water. I saw Priyanka drifting away in a lifeboat. I screamed even as Bakshi 
used both his hands to keep my head submerged. Salt water filled my mouth 
and nostrils as I heard loud beeps at a distance.

My nightmare ended as my cell phone alarm rang hard in my left ear and 
I  woke   up   to   its  Last  Christmas   ring  tone.   The  ring  tone   was  a   gift  from 
Shefali, my new semi-girlfriend. I squinted through a half-shut eye and lifted 
on the screen.

‘Damn,’ I said and jumped out of bed.
I   would   have   loved   to   analyze   my   dream   and   its   significance   in   my 

insignificant life, but I had to get dressed for work.

‘Man,  the Qualis will be  here in  twenty minutes,’  I thought, digging 
matter out of my eye. I was still tired, but scared to sleep more because I was 
getting late. Besides, there was a serious risk of Bakshi making a comeback in 
my dreams.

By the way, hi. I am Shyam Mehra, or Sam Marcy as they call me at my 
workplace, the Connexions call center in Gurgaon. (American tongues have 
trouble saying my real name and prefer Sam. If you want, you can give me 
another name too. I really don’t care.)

Anyway,  I am a call center agent. There was hundred of thousands, 
probably millions of agents like me. But this total pain-in-the neck author 
chose me, of all the agents in the country. He met me and told me to help 
with his second book. In fact, he near as well wanted me to write the book for 
him. I declined, saying I can’t even write my resume or even other simple 
things in life, there is no way I can write a whole damn book. I explained to 
him how my promotion to the position of team leader had been put off for 
one year because my manager Bakshi had told me I don’t have the ‘required 
skill-set’s yet. In my review, Bakshi wrote that I was ‘not a go-getter’. (I don’t 
even know what ‘go-getter’ means, so I guess I’m not one for sure.)

But this author said he didn’t care—he had promised someone he’d do 
this story so I’d better cooperate, otherwise he would keep pestering me. I 
tried my best to wriggle out of it, but he wouldn’t let go of me. I finally 
relented and that’s why I’m stuck with this assignment, while you are stuck 
with me.

I also want to give you one more warning. My English is not that great—
actually, nothing about me is great. So, if you are looking for something posh 
and highbrow, then I’d suggest you read another book which has some big 
many-syllabus words. I know only one big, many-syllable word, and I hate that 
word—‘management’. But we’ll get to that later. I told the author about my 
limited English. However, the pain-in-the-neck author said big emotions do 
not   come   from   big  words.   So,   I   had   no   choice   but   to   do   the   job.   I  hate 

authors. For now, let us go back to the story. If you remember, I had just 
woken up at my home.

There were noises in the living room. Some relatives were in town to 
attend a family wedding. My neighbor was getting married to his cousin…er 
sorry, I was too groggy to figure this out—no, my cousin was getting married to 
his neighbor. But I had to work, so I could not go to the wedding. It doesn’t 
matter, all marriages are the same, more or less.

I reached the bathroom still half-asleep, it was already occupied.
The bathroom door was open. I saw five of my aunts scrambling to get a 
few   square-inches   of   the   wash-basin   mirror.   One   aunt   was   cursing   her 
daughter for leaving the matching bindis at home. Another aunt had lost the 
little screw of her gold earring and was flipping out.

‘It is pure gold, where is it?’ she screamed into my face. ‘Has the maid 
stolen it?’ like the maid had nothing better to do then steal one tiny screw. 
Wouldn’t she steal the whole set? I thought.

‘Auntie, can I use the bathroom for five minutes. I need to get ready for 

office,’ I said.

‘Oh hello, Shyam. Woke up finally?’ my mother’s sister said. ‘Office? 

You are not coming for the wedding?’

‘No, I have to work. Can I have the bath…’
‘Look how big Shyam has become,’ my maternal aunt said. ‘We need to 

find a girl for him soon.’

Everyone burst into giggles. It was their biggest joke of the day.
‘Can I please…’ I said.
‘Shyam, leave the ladies alone,’ one of my older cousins interrupted. 
‘What are you doing here with the women? We are already so late for the 
wedding’

‘But I have to go to work. I need to get dressed,’ I protested, trying to 

elbow my way to the bathroom tap.

‘You work in a call center, right? My cousin said.
‘Yes.’
‘Your work is through the phone. Why do you need to dress up? Who is 

going to see you?’

toothbrush.

I didn’t answer.
‘Use   the   kitchen   sink,’   an   aunt   suggested   and   handed   me   my 

I gave them all a dirty look. Nobody noticed. I passed by the living room 
on my way to the kitchen. The uncles were outside, on their second whiskey 
and soda. One uncle said something about how it would be better if my father 
were still alive and around this evening.

I reached the kitchen. The floor was so cold I felt I had stepped on an 
ice tray. I realized I had forgotten soap. I went back but the bathroom door 
was bolted. There was no hot water in the kitchen, and my face froze as I 
washed it with cold water. Winter in Delhi is a bitch. I brushed my teeth and 

used the steel plates as a mirror to comb my hair. Shyam had turned into Sam 
and Sam’s day had just begun.

I was hungry, but there was nothing to eat in the house. Because they’d 
be getting food at the wedding, my mother had felt there was no need to cook 
at home. 

The Qualis horn screamed at 8.55 p.m.
As I was about to leave, I realized I had forgotten my ID. I went to my 
room, but could not find it. I tried to find my mother instead. She was in her 
bedroom, lost in more aunties, saris and jewellery sets. She and my aunts 
were doing some major weight comparisons of which aunt’s set was heaviest. 
Usually the heaviest aunt had the heaviest set.

‘Mom, have you seen my ID?’ I said. Everyone ignored me. I went back 

My aunt finally found the gold screw tapped in her fake hair bun.
The Qualis horn screamed again, this time in an agency tone.
‘I’m coming,’ I shouted as I ran out of the house.

to my room as the Qualis honked for the fourth time.

‘Damn, there it is,’ I said as I finally located the ID under my bed. I 

pulled it out by its strap and strung it around my neck.

I waved a goodbye to everyone, but no on acknowledged me. It wasn’t 
surprising, I am only cared for so much. Every cousin of mine is becoming a 
doctor or engineer. You can say I am the black sheep of my family. Though I 
do not think that I expression is correct. After all, what’s wrong with black 
sheep—don’t people wear black sweaters? But you get an idea of my status in 
my clan. In fact, the only reason people somewhat talk to me is I have a job 
and get a salary at the end of the month. You see, I used to work in the 
website department of an ad agency before this call center job. However, the 
ad agency paid horrible money. Also, all the people there were pseudos, more 
interested in office politics than websites. I quit, and all hell broke loose at 
home. That is when the black sheep term was tagged onto me. I saved myself 
by joining Connexions, as with money in your wallet the world gives you some 
respect and lets Priyanka worked there. Of course, that reason was no longer 
relevant.

#2

‘What sahib. Late again?’ The driver said as I took the front seat.
‘Sorry, sorry. Military Uncle’s place first?’ I panted to the driver.
‘Yes,’ he replied, looking at his watch.
‘Can we reach the call center by 10:00 p.m.? I have to meet someone 

before their shift ends,’ I said.

‘Depends   if   your   colleagues   come   on   time,’   the   driver   replied 
laconically as he drove towards Military Uncle’s house. ‘Anyway, let’s pick up 
the old man first.’

Military Uncle hates it if we are late. I prepared myself for some dirty 
looks. His tough manner comes from the Army background, from which he 
retired a few years ago. A fifty plus, he is the oldest person in the call center. 
I do not know him well, and I won’t talk about him much. But I do know that 
he used to stay with his son and daughter-in-law before he moved one (read—
thrown out) to be on his  own. The pension was meager,  and he tried to 
supplement his income by working in the call center. However, he hates to 
talk and is not a voice agent. He sits on the solitary online chat and email 
station. Even though he sits in our room, his desk is at a far corner near the 
fax machine. He rarely speaks more than three words at a time. Most of his 
interactions with us are limited to giving us condescending you-young-people 
glances.

The   Qualis   stopped   outside   Uncle’s   house.   He   was   waiting   at   the 

entrance.

‘Late?’ Uncle said, looking at the driver.
Without answering, the driver got out to open the Qualis back door. 
Uncle climbed in, ignored the middle seat and sat at the back. He probably 
wanted to sit as far away from me as possible.

Uncle gave me an  it-must-be-your-fault  look. Older people think they 
have a natural right to judge you. I looked away. The driver took a U-turn to 
go to Radhika’s house.

One of the unique features about my team is that we not only work 
together, we also share the same Qualis. Through a bit of route planning and 
driver persuasion, we ensured that my Western Appliances Strategic Group all 
came and left together. There are six of us: Military Uncle, Radhika, Esha, 
Vroom, Priyanka and me.

The Qualis moved to Radhika Jha, or agent Regina Jones’s house. As 

usual, Radhika was late.

‘Radhika madam is too much,’ the driver said, continuously pressing the 
horn.   I   looked   at   my   watch   anxiously.   I   didn’t   want   Shefali   to   throw   a 
tantrum. 

Six minutes later Radhika came running towards us, clutching the ends 

of her maroon shawl in her right hand.

‘Sorry,   sorry   sorry…’   she   said   a   dozen   times   before   we   could   say 

anything.

‘What?’ I asked her as the Qualis moved again.
‘Nothing.   Almost   milk   for   mom-in-law.   Took   longer   to   crush   the 
almonds,’ she said, learning back exhausted in her seat. She had taken the 
middle seat.

‘Ask mom-in-law to make her own milk,’ I suggested.
‘C’mon Shyam,’ she said, ‘she’s so old, it is the least I can do, especially 

when her son is not here.’

‘Yeah right,’ I shrugged.  ‘Just that and cooking three meals a day and 

household chores and working all night and…’

‘Shh…’ she said,’forge all that. Any news on the call centre? I’m scared.’
‘Nothing new from what Vroom told me. We have to new orders, call 
volumes are at an all time low— Connexions is doomed. Just a question of 
when,’ I said.

‘Really?’ her eyes widened.
It was true. You might have heard of those swanky, new-age call centers 
where   everything   is   hunky-dory,   clients   are   plenty   and   agents   get 
aromatherapy massage. Well, our Connexions was not one of them. We live 
off one and only one client—Western Computers and Appliances. And even 
their   call   flow   had   dwindled.   Rumors   that   the   call   center   would   collapse 
floated in every day.

‘You thing Connexions will close down? Like forever?’ Radhika asked. 
Uncle raised an eyebrow to look at us, but soon went back to brooding 
by himself in the back seat. I sometimes wished he would say more, but I 
guess it’s better for people to shut up rather than say something nasty.

‘That, or they will do major job cuts. Ask Vroom.’ I said.
The Qualis moved painfully slow as it was a heavy wedding date in Delhi. 
On every street, there was a wedding procession. We edged forward as the 
driver dodged several fat grooms on their own-burdened horses. I checked the 
time again. Shefali would do some serious sulking today.

‘I need this job. Anuj and I need to save.’ Radhika said, more to herself. 
Anuj   was   Radhika’s   husband.   She   married   him   three   years   ago   after   a 
whirlwind courtship in college. She now lived in a joint family with Anuj’s 
ultra-traditional parents. It was tough for daddy’s only girl, but it’s amazing 
what people do for love.

The driver drove to Esha Singh’s (agent Eliza Singer’s) place next. She 
was already outside her house. The driver kept the Qualis ignition on as he 
opened the back door.

Esha entered the Qualis and the smell of expensive perfume filled the 
vehicle. She sat next to Radhika in the middle row and removed her suede 
jacket.

‘Mmm…nice. What is it?’ Radhika said.
‘You noticed…’ Esha was pleased. ‘Escape, by Calvin Klein.’ She bent 

her knees and adjusted the tassels at the end of her long, dark brown skirt.

‘Oooh. Went shopping?’ Radhika said.
‘Call it a momentary laps of reason,’ Esha said.

The driver finally reached a stretch of empty road and raced the Qualis 

fast.

I  looked   at   Esha   again.   Her   dress   sense   is   impeccable.   Esha   dresses 
better on an average day than I ever did in my whole life. Her sleeveless 
coffee-colored   top   perfectly   contrasted   with   her   skirt.   She   wore   chunky 
brown earrings that looked edible and her lipstick was a thick cocoa, as is she 
had just kissed a bowl of chocolate sauce. Her eyes had at least one of these 
things—mascara, eyeliner and/or eye-shadow (I can’t tell, but Priyanka told 
me they are different things).

‘The Lakme fashion week is in four months. My agent is trying to get me 

an assignment,’ Esha said to Radhika.

Esha wanted to become a model. She was hot, at least according to 
people   at   the   call   center.   Two   months   ago,   some   agents   in   the   Western 
Computers bay conducted a stupid poll in office. You know, the secret ones 
that everyone knows about anyway. People vote for various titles, like who is 
hot, who is handsome and who is pretty. Esha won the title of the ‘hottest 
chick at Connexions’. She acted very dismissive of the poll results, but from 
that day there’s been just this tiny hint of vanity in her. But otherwise, she is 
fine. She moved to Delhi from Chandigarh a year ago, against her parent’s 
wishes. The call center job helps her earn a regular income, but during the 
day she approached agencies and tries to get modeling assignments. She’s 
taken part in some low-key fashion shows in West Delhi. But apart from that 
and the hottest-chick in-house title, nothing big has come her way so far. 
Priyanka once told me (making me swear that I’d keep it to myself) that she 
thinks Esha will never make it as a real model. ‘Esha is too short and too 
small-town for a real model’—is what she said exactly. But Priyanka doesn’t 
know crap. Esha is five-five, only two inches shorter than me (and one inch 
taller than me with her heels). I think that is quite tall for a girl. And the 
whole ‘small-town’ thing, that just went over my head. Esha is only twenty-
two, give her a chance. And Chandigarh is not a small town, it is a union 
territory   and   the   administrative   capital   of   two   states.   But   Priyanka’s 
geography is crap as well. I think Priyanka is just jealous. All non-hot girls are 
jealous   of  the   hot   ones.   Priyanka   wasn’t   even   considered   for   the   hottest 
chick. Now I do find Priyanka nice looking, and she did get a nomination for 
the ‘call center cutie award’, which I think is just because of her dimples and 
cure round face. But Priyanka didn’t win. Some girl in HR won that.

We had to pick Vroom next; his real name is Varun Malhotra (of agent 
Victor   Mell).   However,   everyone   calls   him   Vroom   because   of   his   love   for 
anything on wheels.

The Qualis turned into the lane for Vroom’s house. He was sitting on his 

bike, waiting for us.

‘What’s the bike for?’ I said, craning out of the window.
‘I’m coming on my own,’ Vroom said, adjusting his leather gloves. He 
wore black jeans and trekking shows that made his thin legs look extra long. 
His dark blue sweatshirt had the Ferrari horse logo on it.

‘Are you crazy?’ I said. ‘it’s so cold. Get in, we’re late already.’

Dragging the bike he came and stood next to me.
‘No, I’m stressed today. I need to get it out of me with a fast ride.’ He 

was standing right beside me and only I could hear him.

‘What happened?’
‘Nothing. Dad called. He argued with mom for two hours. Why did they 

separate? They can’t live without screaming their guts out at each other?’

‘It’s okay man. Not your problem,’ I said.
Vroom’s dad was a businessmen who parted from his wife two years 
ago. He preferred banging his secretary to being with his family, so Vroom and 
his mother now lived without him.

‘I couldn’t sleep at all. Just lay in bed all day and now I feel sick. Need 

to get some energy back,’ Vroom said as he straddled his bike.

‘But it’s freezing, dude…’ I began.
‘What is going on Shyam sahib?’ the driver asked. I turned around. The 

driver looked at me with a puzzled expression. I shrugged my shoulders.

‘He’s coming on his bike,’ I told everyone.
‘Come with me,’ Vroom said to me. ‘I’ll make you reach in half the 

time.’

Qualis to go anywhere.

‘No thanks,’ I said, and folded my hands. I was not leaving the cozy 

Vroom bent over to greet the driver.
‘Hello, driver sahib,’ Vroom said.
‘Vroom   sahib,   don’t   you   like   my   Qualis?’   the   driver   said,   visibly 

dejected.

‘No Driver ji, I am in a mood to ride,’ Vroom said, and offered a pack of 
cigarettes to the driver. The driver took one. Vroom signaled him to keep the 
whole pack.

‘Drive the Qualis if you want,’ the driver said and lifted his hands off 

the steering wheel.

‘No maybe later. Right now I need to fly.’
‘Hey Vroom. Any news on Connexions? Anything happening?’ Radhika 

asked, adjusting her hair.

Apart from the dark circles around her eyes, you would say Radhika was 
pretty. She had high cheekbones and her fair skin went well with her wispy 
eyebrows and soot-black eyes. Her sleep-deprived face still looked nice. She 
wore a plain mustard sari, as saris were all she could wear in her in-laws’ 
house. This was different apparel from the jeans and skirts Radhika preferred 
before her marriage.

‘No updates. Will dig for stuff today but I think Bakshi will screw us all. 
Hey Shyam, the website manual is all done by the way. I emailed it to office,’ 
Vroom said and started his bike.

‘Cool, finally. Let’s send it in today,’ I said, perking up.
We left Vroom and moved to out last pickup at Priyanka’s place. It was 
9.30 p.m. still an hour away from our shift. However, I was worried as Shefali 
finished her shift and left by 10:20 p.m.

respond to her.

my website manual tonight.

time.

‘hi,’ I said. I wondered if Bakshi would finally promote me after he saw 

‘Where’s Vroom?’ Priyanka said.  She had to know everything all the 

Fortunately,   Priyanka   was   standing   at   her   pick-up   point   when   we 

reached her place.

‘Hi,’ Priyanka said, as she entered the Qualis and sat next to Esha in the 
middle seat. She carried a large, white plastic bag apart from her usual giant 
handbag.

‘Hi,’ everyone replied except me.
‘I said hi, Shyam,’ Priyanka said.
I pretended not to hear. It is strange, but even since we broke up, I find 

it difficult to talk to her. Even though I must think of her thirty times a day.

I looked at her. She adjusted her dupatta around her neck. The forest 
green salwar kameez she was wearing was new, I noticed. The colors suited 
her light brown skin. I looked at her nose and her nostrils that flared up every 
time she was upset. I swear tiny flames appeared in them when she was mad.

‘Shyam, I said hi,‘ she said again. She gets really pissed if people don’t 

‘Vroom is riding…vroom,’ Esha said, making a motorbike noise.
‘Nice perfume, Esha. Shopping again, eh?’ Priyanka said and sniffed, 

puckering up that tiny nose.

‘Escape, Calvin Klein,’ Esha announced and struck a pose.
‘Wow!   Someone   is   going   designer,’   Priyanka   said   and   both   of   them 
laughed. This is something I will never understand about her. Priyanka has 
bitched fifty times about Esha to me, yet when they are with each other, they 
behave like long-lost sisters.

‘Esha, big date coming?’ Radhika said.
‘No dates. I’m still so single. Suitable guys are an endangered species,’ 
Esha said and all the girls laughed. It wasn’t that funny if you ask me. I wished 
Vroom was in the Qualis too. He is the only person in my team I can claim as a 
friend. At twenty-two he is four years younger than I am, but I will find it 
easiest to talk to him. Radhika’s household talk is too alien to me. Esha’s 
modeling trip is also beyond me as no one is ever going to pay me for the 
looks. I am certainly not good looking: my day is made if someone describes 
my looks as ‘slightly above average’. 

Priyanka was a friend and a lot moiré until recently. Four months ago, 

we broke up (Priyanka’s version) or she dumped me (my version).

So now I try to do what she wants us to do—‘move on’—which is why I 

hang out with Shefali.

Beep Beep. Beep Beep.
Two pairs of loud beeps from my shift’s pocket startled everyone.
‘Who’s is that?’ Priyanka said.
‘Oh Sorry. It’s my SMS.’ I said and opened the new message.
Where r u my eddy teddy?

Come soon-curly wurly

It was Shefali. She is into cheesy nicknames these days. I replied to the 

SMS.

Qualis stuck in traffic
Will b there soon

‘Who’s that?’ Esha asked me.’
‘Nobody important,’ I said.
‘Shefali?’ Radhika said.
‘No,’ I said and everybody looked at me.
‘No,’ I said again.
‘Yes, it is. It is Shefali, isn’t it,’ Esha and Radhika said together and 

‘Why does Shefali always babytalk?’ I heard Esha whisper to Radhika. 

laughed.

More titters followed.

‘No sugar in mine,’ Esha said.
‘Extra hot for me,’ Radhika said.
‘With cardamom for me,’ Priyanka said.

‘Whatever,’ I said and looked at my watch. The Qualis was still on the 
NH8,   at   the   entrance   to   Gurgaon.   We   were   ten   minutes   away   from 
Connexions.

‘Cool, will meet Shefali by 10:10, I thought.
‘Can   we   stop   for   a   quick   tea   at   Inderjeet?   We   will   still   make   it   by 
10:30,’ Priyanka said. Inderjeet dhabha on NH8 was famous for its all-night 
tea and snacks among truck drivers.

‘We won’t get late?’ Radhika crinkled her forehead.
‘Of course  not.  Driver  Ji  asked saved us  twenty minutes in  the  last 

stretch. Come Driver ji, my treat,’ Priyanka said.
‘Good idea. Will keep me awake,’ Esha said.
The driver slowed the Qualis near Inderjeet dhabha and parked it near 

‘Hey guys, do we have to stop? We will get late,’ I protested against the 

the counter.

chai chorus.

‘We   won’t   get   late.   Let’s   treat   Driver  ji  for   making   us   reach   fast,’ 
Priyanka said and got out of the Qualis. She just has to do things I don’t want 
to do.

‘He   wants   to   be   with   Shefali,   dude,’   Esha   elbowed   Radhika.   They 

guffawed again. What is so damn funny, I wants to ask, but didn’t.

‘No, I just like to reach my shift a few minutes early,’ I said and got out 

of the Qualis. Military Uncle and the driver followed us.

Inderjeet   dhabha   had  angithis  next   to   each   table.   I   smelled   hot 
paranthas, but did not order as it was getting late. The driver arranged plastic 
chairs   for   us.   Inderjeet’s   minions   collected   tea   orders   as   per   the   various 
complicated rules laid out by the girls.

When we were in college together, Priyanka used to make cardamom 
tea for me in her hostel room. Her taste in men might have changed, but 
obviously not her taste in beverages.

The tea arrived in three minutes.
‘So what’s the gossip?’ Priyanka said as cupped her hands around the 

glass for warmth. Apart from cardamom, Priyanka’s favourite spice is gossip.
‘No gossip. You tell us, things are happening I your life,’ Radhika said.
‘I actually do have something to tell,’ Priyanka said with a sly smile.
‘What?’ Radhika and Esha exclaimed together.
‘I’ll tell you when we get to the bay. It’s big,’ Priyanka said.
‘Tell now,’ Esha said, poking Priyanka’s shoulder.
‘No   time.   Someone   is   in   a   desperate   hurry,’   Priyanka   said   glancing 

meaningfully at me.
I turned away.
‘Okay, I also have something to share. But don’t tell anyone, Esha said.
‘What?’ Radhika said.
‘See, Esha said and stood up. She raised her top to expose a flat midriff

—on which there was a newborn ring.

‘Cool, check it out,’ Priyanka said, ‘someone’s turning trendy.’
Military Uncle stared as if in a state of shock. I suspect he was never 

young, was just born straight forty years old.

‘What’s that? A navel ring?’ Radhika asked.
Esha nodded and covered herself again.
‘Did it hurt?’ Radhika said.
‘Oh yes,’ Esha said. ‘Imagine someone stapling your tummy hard.’
Esha’s statement churned my stomach.
‘Shall we go,’ I said, gulping down my tea.
‘Let’s go girls, or Mr Conscientious will get upset,’ Priyanka suppressed 

a smirk. I hate her.

I went to the counter to pay the bill. I saw Vroom watching TV.
‘Vroom?’ I said.
‘Hi. What are you guys doing here?’ he said.
I told about the girls’ tea idea.
‘I arrived twenty minutes ago man,’ Vroom said. He extinguished his 

cigarette and showed me that butt. ‘This was my first.’

Vroom was trying to cut down to four cigarettes a night. However, with 

Bakshi in our life, it was impossible.

‘Can you rush me to the call center? Shefali will leave soon,’ I said.
Vroom’s   eyes   were   transfixed   on   the   TV   set   on   Inderjeet   dhabha’s 
counter. The NDTV news channel was on, and Vroom is a sucker for it. He 
worked in a newspaper once and is generally into social and global issues and 
all that stuff. He thinks that just by watching the news, he can change the 
world. That, by the way, is his trip.

A TV reporter was speaking in front of Parliament house, announcing 

elections in four months.

‘Hey, I know that guy. He used to work in my previous job,’ Vroom said.

‘The newspaper?’
‘Yes,   Boontoo   we   used   to   call   him—total   loser   guy.   Didn’t   know   he 
moved to television. Check out his contact lenses,’ Vroom said, as both of us 
paid the bill.

‘Let’s go, man. Shefali will kill me.’
‘Shefali. Oh you mean curly wurly,’ Vroom laughed.
‘Shut up man. She has to catch the Qualis after her shift. This is the 

only time I get with her.’

‘On one hand you had Priyanka, and now you sink to Shefali levels,’ 
Vroom said, and bent his elbow to rest his six-feet-two-inches frame on the 
dhabha counter.

‘What’s wrong with Shefali?’ I said, shuffling from one foot to the other.
‘Nothing, just that it is nice to have a girlfriend with half a brain. Why 

are you wasting your time with her?’

I’m waning myself off Priyanka. I’m trying to move on in life,’ I said and 

took a sweat from the candy jar at the counter.

‘So what’s Shefali, a pacifier? What happened to the re-proposal plan 

with Priyanka?’ Vroom said.

‘I’ve told you. Not until I become team leader. Which should be soon—
maybe tonight after me submit the website manual. Now can we please go?’ I 
said.

‘Yeah, right. Some hopes you live on,’ Vroom said, but moved away 

from the counter. 

I held on tight as Vroom zipped through NH8 at 120 km an hour. I closed 

my eyes and prayed Shefali would not be mad, and that I would teach alive. 

Beep Beep. Beep Beep. My mobile went off again.
Curly wurly is sad
Eddy teddy is very bad
I leave in 10 min : (

I jumped off the bike as Vroom reached the call center. The bike jerked 

forward and Vroom had to use both his legs to balance.

‘Easy man. Vroom said in an irritated voice. ‘Can you just let me park?’
‘Sorry. I’m really late,’ I said and ran inside.

#3

‘I’m not talking to you,’ Shefali said and started playing with one of her 
silver earrings. The ring-shaped earrings were so large, they could be bangles.
‘Sorry Shefali. My bay people made the Qualis late.’ I stood next to her, 
leaning against her desk. She sat on her swivel chair and rotated it ninety 
degrees away from me to showcase her sulking. The dozens of workstations in 
her bay were empty as all the other agents had left.

‘Whatever.   I   thought   you   were   their   team   leader,’   she   said   and 

pretended to work on her computer.

‘I am not the team leader. I am due, but not one yet,’ I said.
‘Why don’t they make you team leader?’ she turned to me and fluttered 

her eyes. I hate this expression of hers.

‘I don’t know. Bakshi said he’s trying, but I have to bring my leadership 

skills up to speed.’

‘What is up to speed?’ she said and opened her handbag.
‘I don’t know. Improve my skills I guess.’
‘So you guys don’t have any team leader.’
‘No. Bakshi says we have to manage without one. I help with supervisory 

stuff for now. But Bakshi told me I have strong future potential.’

‘So why doesn’t your team listen to you?’
‘Who says they don’t? Of course they do.’
‘So why were you late/’ she said, beginning her sentence with a ‘so; for 

‘Shefali come on, drop that,’ I said, looking at my watch. ‘How did your 

the third time.

shift go?’

‘Shift   was   okay.   Team   leader   said   call   volumes   have   dropped   for 
Western   Computers.   All   customers   are   using   the   troubleshooting   website 
now.’

‘Cool. You do know who made that right?’
‘Yes, you and Vroom. But I don’t think you should make a big deal out of 

it. The website has cost Connexions a lot of business.’

‘But the website helps the customers a lost, right?’ I said.
‘Shh. Don’t talk about the website here. Some agents are very upset. 

Someone said they would cut people.’

‘Really?’
‘I don’t know. Listen, why are you so unromantic? Is this how Eddy 

Teddy should talk to his Curly Wurly/’

I wanted to know more about what was going on at Connexions. Bakshi 
was   super-secretive—all   the   said   was   there   were   some   confidential 
management priorities. I thought of asking Vroom to spy some more.

‘Eddy Teddy?’ Shefali repeated. I looked at her. If she stopped wearing 

Hello Kitty hairpins, she could be passably cute.

‘Huh?’
‘Are you listening to me?’

‘Of course.’
‘Did you like my gift/’
‘What gift?’
‘The   ring   tones.   I   gave   you   six   rings   tones.   See,   you   don’t   even 

remember,’ she said and her face turned sad.

‘I do. See I put  Last Christmas  as my tone,’ I said and picked up my 
phone to play it. Vroom would probably kill me if he heard it, but I had to for 
Shefali.

‘So cute,’ Shefali said and pinched my cheeks. ‘So cute it sounds, my 

Eddy teddy.’

‘Shefali…’
‘What?’
‘Can you stop calling me that/’
‘Why/ you don’t like it?’
‘Just call me Shyam.’
‘You don’t like the name I gave you?’ she said, her voice transcending 

from sad to tragic.

started to break.

I kept quiet. You never tell women you don’t like something they have 

done. However, they pick up on the silence.

‘That means you don’t like the ring tones either,’ she said and her voice 

‘I do,’ I said, fearing a round of crying. ‘I love the ring tones.’
‘And what about the name? You can choose another name if you want. I 
am not like your other girlfriends,’ she said and tiny tears appeared in her 
eyes.   I   looked   at   my   watch.   There   more   minutes   and   time   will   heal 
everything. I thought. I took a deep breath. A hundred and eighty seconds and 
she would have to leave for sure. Sometimes counting seconds is a great way 
to kill time through woman’s tantrums.
‘What kind of girlfriends/’ I said.
‘Like,’ she sniffed, ‘bossy girls who impose their way on you. Like you-

know-who.’

‘Who?’ What are you implying,’ I said, my voice getting firmer. It was 

true; Priyanka could be bossy, but only if you didn’t listen to her.

‘Forget it. But will you give me a name if I stop crying?’ her sobs were at 

a serious risk of transforming into a full-fledged bawl.

‘yes,’ I said and became normal. ‘Give me a name,’ 
I though hard. Nothing came to mind.
‘Sheffy? How about Sheffy?’ I said finally.
‘Nooo. I want something cuteeer,’ she said. Shefali loves to drag out 

‘I can’t of anything cute right now. I have to work. Isn’t your Qualis 

She looked at her watch and stood up.
‘Yes, I better leave now. Will you think of a name by tomorrow?’ she 

words.

leaving soon too?’ I said.

said.

‘I will, bye now.’

‘Give me a kissie,’ she said and tapped a finger on her cheek. 
‘What?’
‘Kissie.’
‘You mean a kiss? Yeah sure.’ I gave her a peck on the check and turned 

around to return to my bay.

‘Bye bye. Eddy Teddy,’ her voice followed me.

#4

The others were already at the desk when I returned from Shefali’s bay.
Our bay’s name is the ‘Western Appliances Strategic Group’ or WASG. 
Unlike the other bay that troubleshoots for computer customers, we deal with 
customers   of   home   appliances   such   as   refrigerators,   ovens   and   vacuum 
cleaners.   Management   calls   us   the   strategic   bay   because   we   specialize   in 
troublesome and painful customers. These ‘strategic’ customers call a lot and 
are   too   dumb   to   figure   out   things   (actually   the   latter   applies   to   a   lot   of 
callers).

We fell special, as we are not part of the main computers bay. The main 
bay has over a thousand agents and handles the huge ‘Western Computers’ 
account. While the calls are less weird there, they miss the privacy we enjoy 
in the WASG.

I came and took my seat at the long rectangular table. We have a fixed 
seating arrangement: I sit next to Vroom, while Priyanka is right opposite me; 
Esha is adjacent to Priyanka and Radhika sits next to Esha. The bay is an open 
plan, so we can all see each others. Military Uncle’s chat station is at the 
corner   of   the   room.   At   each   of   the   other   three   corners,   there   are, 
respectively,   the   restroom,   a   conference   room   and   a   stationery   supplies 
room.

However, no one apart from Uncle was at their seat when I sat down. 

Everyone had gathered around Priyanka.

‘What’s the news? Tell us now,’ Esha was saying.
‘Okay, okay. But on one condition. It doesn’t leave the WASG,’ Priyanka 

said, sitting down. She pulled out a large plastic bag from under her seat.

‘Guys,’ I said, interrupting their banter.
Everyone turned to look at me.
I pointed at the desk and the unmanned phones. I looked at my watch. 
It was 10:29 p.m. The call system routine backup was about to finish, and our 
calls would begin in a minute.

Everyone returned to their chairs and put on their headsets.
‘Good evening, everyone. Please pay attention to this announcement,’ a 
loud voice filled our bay. I looked up. The voice came from the fire drill 
speaker.

‘I hate this irritating announcement,’ Priyanka said.
‘This is the control room,’ the speaker continued. ‘This is to inform all 
agents of a fire drill next Friday at midnight. Please follow instructions during 
the fire drill to leave the call center safely. Thank you. Have a nice shift.’

‘Why do they keep doing this? Nobody is going to burn this place down,’ 

Esha said.

‘Government rules,’ Vroom said.
Conversations stopped mid-way as two begs on the computer screens 

signaled the start of our shift.

Calls began at 10”31 p.m.  Numbers started flashing on  our  common 

switchboard as we picked up calls one after the other. 

‘Good afternoon, Western Appliances, Victor speaking, how may I help 

you?’ Vroom said as he took one of his first calls.

‘Yes, according to my records I am speaking to Ms Smith, and you have 

the WAF-200 dishwasher. Is that right?’ Esha said.

Esha’s ‘memory’ impressed the caller. It was not a big deal, given that 
our   automated   system   had   every   caller’s   records.   We   knew   their   name, 
address, credit card details and past purchases from Western Appliances. We 
also had details on when they last called us. In fact, the reason why her call 
had come to our desk—the Western Appliances Strategic desk—was because 
she was a persistent caller. This way the main bay could continue to run 
smoothly.

Sometimes   we   had   customers   that   were   oddballs   even   by   WASG 
standards. I will not go into all of them, but Vroom’s 10:37 p.m. call went 
something like this:

‘Yes s Paulson, of course we remember you. Happy Thanksgiving, I hope 
you are making a big turkey in our WA100 model oven,’ Vroom said, reading 
from a script that reminded us about the American festival of the day.

I could not hear the customer’s side of the conversation, but Ms Paulson 

was obviously explaining her problem with the oven.

‘No Ms Paulson, you shouldn’t have unscrewed the cover,’ Vroom said, 

as politely as possible. 

‘No, really madam. An electrical appliance like the WA100 should only 
he serviced by trained professionals,’ Vroom said, reading verbatim from the 
WA100 service manual.

Ms Paulson spoke for another minute. Our strategic bay hardly had a 
reputation for efficiency, but long calls like these could screw up Vroom’s 
response times.

‘See madam, you need to explain to me why you opened the top cover. 
Then perhaps we’ll understand why you got an electric shock… so tell me… 
yes…   oh   really?   Vroom   continued,   taking   deep   breaths.   Patience,   key   to 
becoming a star agent, did not come naturally to him.

I looked around; people were busy with calls. Radhika helped someone 
defrost   her   fridge;   Esha   assisted   a   customer   in   unpacking   a   dishwasher. 
Everyone was speaking with an American accent and sounded different from 
how they had in the Qualis. I took a break from the calls to compile the call 
statistic of thee previous day. I did not particularly like doing this, but Bakshi 
had left me with little choice. 

‘See   madam,’   Vroom   was   still   with   Ms   Paulson,   ‘I   understand   your 
turkey did not fit and you did not want to cut it, but you should not have 
opened up the equipment…. But see that is not the equipment’s fault… I can’t 
really tell you what to do… I understand your son is coming, madam…. Now If 
you had the WA150, that is a bigger size… ‘Vroom said, beginning to breathe 
faster.

Ms Paulson ranted on for a while longer.

flashing on his screen.

I worked on my computer for the next ten minutes, compiling the call 
statistics of the previous day. Bakshi had also assigned me the responsibility 
of checking the other agent’s etiquette. Every now and then, I would listen in 
on somebody’s call. At 10:47 p.m., I connected to Esha’s line.

‘Yes sir. I sound like your daughter? Oh, thank you. So what is wrong 

with the vacuum cleaner/’ she was saying.

‘Ms   Paulson,   I  suggest   you   take   the   oven   to   your   dealer   as   soon   as 
possible’ Vroom said firmly. ‘And next time, get a smaller turkey... and yes, a 
readymade turkey will be a good idea for tonight… No, I don’t have a dial-a-
turkey number. Thank you for calling Ms Paulson, bye.’ Vroom ended the call.

Vroom nagged his fist on the table.
‘Everything okay?’ I said, not looking up from my papers. 
‘Yeah. Just a psycho customer,’ he mumbled as another number started 

‘Your voice is so soothing,’ the caller said.
‘Thanks you sir. So, the vacuum cleaner…?’
Esha’s tone was perfect—just the right mix of politeness and firmness. 
Management monitored us on average call handling times, or AHTs. As WASG 
got the more painful customers, our AHT Benchmarks were higher at two-and-
a-half minutes per call. I checked my files for everyone’s AHT—all of us were 
within targets.

‘Beep! The sound of the fax machine made me look up from my papers. 
I wondered who could be faxing us at this time. I went to the machine and 
checked the incoming fax. It was from Bakshi.

The fax machine took three minutes to churn out the seven pages he 
had sent. I tore the message sheet off the machine and held the first sheet 
up.

From: Subhash Bakshi
Subject: Training Initiatives
Dear Shyam,
Just FYI, I have recommended your name to assist in accent 
training as they are short of teachers. I am sure you can 
spare some time for this. As always, I am trying to get you 
more relevant and strategic exposure.
Yours,
Subhash Bakshi 
Manager, Connexions 

I gasped as I read the rest of the fax. Bakshi was sucking me into several 
hours outside my shift to reach new recruits. Apart from the extra work, I 
hate accent is so confusing. You might think the Americans and their language 
are straightforward. Far from it—with them, each letter can be pronounced 
several different ways.

I will give you just one example— T. With this letter Americans have 
four different sounds. T can be silent so ‘internet’ becomes ‘innernet’ and 
‘advantage’ becomes ‘advannage’. The second way is when T and N merge
—‘written’ becomes ‘writn’ and ‘certain’ is ‘certn’. The third sound is when T 
is   in   the   middle.   There,   it   sounds   like   a   D—‘daughter’   is   ‘daughter’   and 
‘water’ in ‘wauder’. The last category, if you still care, is when Americans say 
T actually like a T. This happens when T is the beginning of the word like 
‘table’ or ‘stumble’. Man, it drivers me nuts. And this is just one consonant. 
The vowels are another, more painful story. 

‘What’s up/’ Vroom said, coming up to me.
I passed the fax to Vroom. He read it and smirked.
‘Yeah right. He sent you an FYI. Do you know what an FYI is?’ Vroom 

said.

someone else.’

American in a week.’

‘What/’
‘Fuck   you   Instead.   It   is   a   standard   way   to   dump   responsibility   on 

‘I hate accent training man. You can’t teach Delhi people to speak like 

‘Just   as  you  can’t   train  Americans  to   speak  with  a  Punjabi   accent,’ 

Vroom said and chuckled. ‘Anyway, go train-train, lose your brain.’

‘What will I do?’ I said, beginning to walk back towards our desk.
‘Go train-train, lose your brain,’ Vroom said and laughed. He liked the 

rhyme, and repeated it several times as we walked back to the bay.

I   was   back   at   my   seat,   Vroom’s   words—‘train,   train’—echoing   in   my 
head. They were making me remember another kind of train altogether. It 
brought back memories of the Rail Museum—where I had a date with Priyanka 
a year ago.

#5
My Past Dates with 
Priyanka—I

Rail Museum, Chanakyapuri 
One year before this night

She  came   thirty   minutes  late.  I   had   seen   the   whole  museum   twice, 
examined every little train model, stepped inside India’s oldest coal engine, 
understood the modern interactive siren system. I went to the canteen, which 
was   on   an   island   inn   the   middle   of   an   artificial   pond.   It   was   impressive 
landscaping for museum. I though of lighting a cigarette, but I caught sight of 
the   sign:   ‘Only   Steam   Engines   are   Allowed   to   Smoke.’   I   was   cradling   a 
lukewarm Coke in the museum canteen when she arrived.

‘Okay. Don’t say anything. Sorry, I’m late, I know, I know,’ she said and 

sat down with a thump in front of me. 

I didn’t say anything. I looked at her tiny nose. I wondered ho it allowed 

in enough oxygen.

‘What, say something,’ she said after five seconds.
‘I thought you told me to be quiet,’ I said.
‘My mother needs professional help,’ Priyanka said. ‘She really does.’
‘What happened/’ I swirled the straw in my coke, making little fizzy 

drops implode. 

‘I’ll tell you. First, how do you like this place/ cute, isn’t it?’
‘The Rail Museum?’ I said, throwing my hands in the air. ‘How old are 

we, twelve? Anyway, what happened with mom? What was the fuel today?

‘We don’t need fuel, just a spark is enough. Just as I was ready to leave 

to come here, she made a comment on my dress.’

‘What did she say?’ I asked, looking at her clothes. She wore a blue tie-
and-dye skirt, and a T-shirt that had a peace sign on it. It was typical Priyanka 
stuff. She wore earring with blue beads, which matched her necklace. She 
had a hint of kohl in her eyes, which I was crazy about. 

‘I was almost at the door and then she says, why don’t you wear the 

gold necklace I gave you for you your last birthday?’ Priyanka said.

‘And then/’ she obviously wasn’t wearing any gold necklace, as my gaze 

turned to the hollow of her neck, which I felt like touching. 

‘And I was like, no mom, it won’t go with my dress. Yellow metal is 
totally uncool, only aunties wear it. Boom, next thing we are having this big, 
long argument. That’s what made me late. Sorry,’ she said.

‘You   didn’t   have   to   fight.   Just   wear   the   chain   in   front   of   her   and 

remove it later,’ I said as the waiter came to take our order.

‘but that’s not the point. Anyways,’ she said and turned tot eh waiter, 
get me a plate of samosas, I’m starving. Actually wait, that is so fattening, do 
you have a salad?’

The waiter gave us a blank look.
‘Where do you think you are?’ I said. ‘this is the Rail Museum canteen, 

not an Italian bistro. You get what you see.’ 

‘Okay, okay,’ she said, eyeing the stalls. ‘Get me the potato chips. No, 
get me the popcorn. Popcorn is lighter right? She looked at the waiter as if he 
was a nutritionist.

‘Just get the popcorn,’ I said to the waiter.
‘So, what else is happening? Met Vroom?’ she said 
‘;Was supposed to, but couldn’t. he had a date.’
‘With who? New girl?’
‘Of course. He never sticks to one. I wonder what girls see in him. All 

hot ones too,’ I said.

‘I can’t understand the deal with Vroom. He is the most materialistic 
and unemotional person I have met in my entire life,’ Priyanka said as the 
popcorn arrived at our table.

‘No he isn’t,’ I said grabbing more popcorn than I could hold.
‘Well, look at him—jeans, phones, pizzas and bikes. That is all he lives 
for. And this whole new girlfriend every three months, c’mon, at some point 
you’ve got to stop that, right?’

‘Well,  I’m  happy   to   stick   to   the   one   I   have,’   I   said,   my   mouth 

overflowing with popcorn.

‘You are so cute,’ Priyanka said, as she blushed and smiled. She took 

some more popcorn and stuffed it into my mouth.

‘Thanks,’ I said as I munched the popcorn. ‘Vroom has changed.  He 

wasn’t like this when he first joined from his previous job.’

‘The one at the newspaper?’
‘Yeah, journalist trainee. He started in current affairs. Do you know 

what one of his famous pieces was called?’

‘No, what? Oh crap,’ Priyanka said, looking at someone behind me.
‘What happened?’
‘Nothing, just don’t look back. Some relatives of mine with their painful 

kids are here. Oh no,’ she said, looking down at our table.

Now when someone tells you not to look at something, you always feel 
an incredible urge to do just that. From the corner of my eye I saw a family 
with two kids at the corner of the room.

‘Who else do you expect to come here but kids?’ I said. ‘Anyway, they 

are quite far.’

said.

‘Shut up and look down. Anyway, tell me about Vroom’s piece,’ she 

‘Oh yeah. It was called ‘Why Don’t politicians Ever Commit Suicide?”’
‘What? Sounds morbid.’

‘Well,   the   article   said   all   kinds   of   people-students,   housewives, 
businessmen, employees and even film stars—commit suicide. But politicians 
never do. That tells you something.’

‘What?’ she  said, still keeping her eyes down.
‘Well, Vroom’s point was that suicide is a horrible thing and people do it 
only   because   they   are   really   hurt.   This   means   they   feel   something.   But 
politicians don’t. So, basically, this country is run by people who don’t feel 
anything.’

‘Wow! Can’t imagine that going down well with his editor.’ 
‘You bet it didn’t. However, Vroom had sneaked it in. the editor only 
saw it after it was printed and all hell broke loose. Vroom somehow saved his 
job, but his bosses moved him to Page 3.’

‘Our Vroom? Page 3?’
‘They told Vroom he was good looking, so he would fit  in  there. In 
addiction, he had done a photography course. He could click the pictures 
himself.’

‘Cover Page 3 because you are good looking? Now that sounds dumb,’ 

she said.

‘It is dumb. But Vroom look his revenge there too. He took unflattering 
pictures of the glitterati—faces stuffed with food, close-ups of cellulite thighs, 
drunk people throwing up—that sort of stuff showed up in papers the next 
day.’

‘Oh   my   God,’   Priyanka   laughed.   ‘He   sounds   like   an   activist.   I   can’t 

understand his switching to the call center for money.’

‘Well, according to him, there is activism in chasing money too.’ 
‘And how does that work?’
‘Well, his point is that the only reason Americans have say in this world 
is because they have cash. The day we get money, we can screw them. So the 
first thing we have to do is get the money.’

‘Interesting,’ Priyanka said and let out a sigh. ‘Well, that is why we slog 
at night. I could have done my B.Ed right after college. But I wanted to save 
some money first. Can’t open my dream nursery school without cash. So until 
then, it is two hundred calls a night, night after night.’ Priyanka rested her 
chin on her elbows. I looked at her. I think she would make the cutest nursery 
school principal ever.

‘Western Appliances, Sam speaking, how may I help you? Please let me 

help you? Please…’ I said, imitating an American accent.

Priyanka laughed again.
‘Priyanka dideeee,’ a five-year old boy’s voice started customers from 

their samosas.

The boy running towards Priyanka had a model train set and a glass of 
fountain   coke   precariously   balanced   in   his   hands.   He   ran   without   co-
ordination:   the   excitement   of   seeing   his   didi   was   too   much   for   him.   He 
tripped near our table and I lunged to save him. I succeeded, but his fountain 
coke fell all over my shirt.

‘Oh no,’ I said eve as I saw another three-year-old girl with a huge 
lollipop in her mouth running towards us. I moved aside from the tornado to 
save another collision. She landed straight on Priyanka’s lap. I went to the 
restroom to clean my shirt.

‘Shyam,’ Priyanka said when I returned, ‘meet my cousin, Dr Anurag.’ 
The   entire   family   had   shifted   to   our   table.   Priyanka   introduced   me   to 
everyone. I forgot their names as soon as I heard them. Priyanka told her 
doctor cousin I worked at a call center. I think the cousin was less interested 
in talking to me after that. The kids had eaten half the popcorn and spilt the 
rest of it. The boy was running his model train set through popcorn fields on 
the table and screaming a mock siren with his sister.

‘Sit, Shyam,’ Priyanka said.
‘No, actually I have an early shift today,’ I said and got up to leave.
‘But wait…’ Priyanka said.
‘No, I have to go,’ I said and ran out of the Rail Museum, which had 

turned as chaotic as a railway station.

#6

‘Ouch, Esha scream in the middle of her call broke my train of though 

and memories.

‘What?’ I said.
‘I heard loud static. Really bad line… hello, yes madam, Esha said.
Radhika was knitting something with pink wool while she waited for a 
call. People were busy, but I could sense that the call volume was lower than 
usual tonight.

‘Eew,’ Priyanka said five seconds later.
‘Freaking hell,’ Vroom said as he pulled off his headset from his ears.
‘What’s going on?’ I said.
‘There’s shrill static coming every few seconds now. Ask Bakshi to send 

someone,’ Vroom said, rubbing his ear.

‘I’ll go to his office. You guys cover the calls,’ I said and looked at the 

time. It was 10:51 p.m. The first break was in less than an hour.

I passed by the training room on my way to Bakshi’s office. I perked 
inside: fresh trainees were attending a session. Some students were snoozing; 
they were probably still getting used to working at night.

‘35=10’, the instructor wrote in big bold letters on the blackboard.
I remembered the 35=10 rule from my training days two years ago. It 

helped agents adjust to their callers.

‘Remember,’   the   instructor   said   to   the   class,   ‘a   thirty-five-year-old 
American’s brain and IQ is the same as a ten-years-old Indian’s brain. This will 
help you understand your clients. You need to be as patient as you are when 
dealing with a child. Americans are dumb, just accept it. I don’t want anyone 
losing their cool during the calls…’

I dreaded the day when I would have to teach in such classes. My own 
Delhi accent was impossible to get rid of, and I must have come last in my 
accent class.

‘I have to get out of this,’ I said to myself as I went to Bakshi’s cabin.

Bakshi  was in his oversized office, starting at  his computer with his 
mouth open. As I cam in, he rapidly closed the windows. He was probably 
surfing the Internet for bikini babes or something.

‘Good evening sir,’ I said.
‘Oh hello, Sam… please come in.’ Bakshi liked to call us by our Western 

names. I hated it.

websites.

manager.’ Bakshi said.

I walked into his office slowly, to give him time to close his favorite 

‘Come,   come   Sam,   don’t   worry.   I   believe   in   being   an   open   door 

I looked at his big square face, unusually large for his 5’6” body. The 
oversized face resembled the Ravan cut-out at Dusshera. His face shone as 
usual. It was the first thing you noticed about Bakshi—the oilfields on his face. 

I think if you could recreate Bakshi’s skin as our landscape, you could solve 
India’s oil problem. Priyanka told me one that when she met Bakshi for the 
first time, she had an overwhelming urge to take a tissue and wipe it hard 
across his face. I do not think one tissue would be enough though.

Bakshi was around thirty but looked forty and spoke like he was fifty. 
He had worked in Connexions for the past three years. Before that, he did an 
MBA from some unpronounceable university in South India. He though he was 
Michael Porter  or something (Porter  is this big  management   guru—I  didn’t 
know either, but Bakshi told me in an FYI once) and loved to talk in manager’s 
languages or Managese, which is another languages like English and American.
‘So, how are the resources doing?’ Bakshi said, swiveling on his chair. 

He never refers to us a people; we are all ‘resources.’

‘Fine, sir. I actually to talk about a problem. The phone lines are not 

walking property—lots of static coming in the calls. Can you ask systems…’

‘Fine, sir. I actually wanted to talk about a problem. The phone lines 
are   not   working   propely—lots   of   static   coming   in   the   calls.   Can   you   ask 
systems…’

‘Sam,’ Bakshi said, pointing a pen at me.
‘Yes?’
‘What did I tell you?’
‘About what?’
‘About how to approach problems.’
‘What?’
‘Think.’
I though hard, but nothing came to mind.
I don’t remember sir…. Solve them?’
‘No. I said big pictures. Always start at the big picture.’
I was puzzled. What was the big picture here? There was static coming 
through on the phones and we had to ask systems to fix it. I could have called 
them myself, but Bakshi’s intervention would get a faster response.
‘Sir, it is a specific issue. Customers are hearing disturbance…’
‘Sam,’ Bakshi sighed and signaled me to sit down, ‘what makes a good 

manager?’

‘What?’  I  sat  down in  front  of him and  surreptitiously  looked at  my 
watch. It was 10:57 p.m. I hoped the call flow was moderate so the others 
wouldn’t have a tough time with one less person on the desk.

‘Wait,’ Bakshi said and took out a writing pad and pen. He placed the 

pad on the middle of the table and then drew a graph that looked like this:

He   finished   the   graph   and   turned   the   notebook   hundred   and   eighty 
degrees to make it face me. He clicked his pen shut with a swagger, as proud 
as da Vinci finishing the Mona Lisa.

‘Sir, systems?’ I said, after staying silent for a few seconds. 

‘Wait, first you tell me. What is this?’ Bakshi said and taped his index finger 
on the diagram.

I tried to make sense of the chart and possibly connection to the static 

on the phone lines. I couldn’t get it.

I shook my head in defeat.
‘Tch-tch, see let me tell you,’ Bakshi said. ‘This chart is your career. If 
you want to be more senior, you have to move up this curve.’ He put a finger 
on the curve and traced it, guiding me on how I should look at my life.

‘Yes sir’ I said having nothing better to say.
‘And do you know how to do that/’
I shook my head. Vroom probably though I was out smoking. I did feel 

some smoke coming out of my ears.

the strategic variables, Sam.’

‘Big Picture. I just told you focus on the big picture. Learn to identify 

Before I could speak, he had pulled out his pen again and was drawing 

another diagram.

‘Maybe I can explain this to you with the help of a 2x2 matrix,’ Bakshi 
said and bent down to wrote ‘High and ‘Low’ along the boxes. I had to stop 
him.

‘Sir please,’ I said, placing both my hands down to cover the sheet.
‘What?’  he  said   with  irritation,  as   if  Einstein  had  been  disturbed   at 

work.

‘Sir, this is really interesting to me. I must come back and learn this. But 

right now any team is waiting and my shift is in progress.’

‘So?’ Bakshi said.
‘The phones, sir. Please tell systems they should check the WASG bay 

urgently,’ I said, without pausing to breathe.

‘Huh?’ Bakshi said, surprised at how fast I speaking.
‘Just call systems sir,’ I said and stood up, ‘using that.’ I pointed at his 

telephone and rushed back to my bay.

#7

‘Nice break eh?’ Vroom said when I returned to our bay ‘C’mon man, 

just went to Bakshi’s office about the static,’ I said.

“Is he sending someone?’ Vroom asked as he untangled his phone wires.
‘He said I should identify the strategic variable first,’ I said and sat down 

on my seat. I rested my face on my hands.

‘Strategic variables? What’s that?’ Vroom said, without looking at me.

‘How the hell do I know?’ I snorted. ‘If I did, I would be team leader. He also 
made some diagrams’

Radhika, Esha and Priyanka were busy on calls. Every few seconds, they 
would turn the phone away from their ears to avoid the loud static. I wished 
the systems guy would come by soon.

‘What diagram?’ Vroom said, as he took out some chewing gum from his 

drawer. He offered one to me.

‘Some crap 2x2 matrix or something,’ I said, declining Vroom’s offer.
‘Poor Bakshi, he is just a little silly but a harmless creature. Don’t worry 

about him,’ Vroom said.

‘Where the  hell is the  systems guy?’  I picked up  the telephone  and 
spoke   to   the   systems  department.   They  had  not   yet  received  a  call  from 
Bakshi.   ‘Can   you   please   come   fast…yes,   we   have   an   emergency…yes,   our 
manager knows about it.’

‘I can’t believe Bakshi hasn’t called them yet,’ I said, after I had got the 

systems guys to promise they’d send someone right away.

‘Things are bad around here, my friend,’ Vroom said. ‘Bad news may be 

coming.’

‘What do you mean? Are they cutting jobs?’ I asked, now a little worried 
and anxious, along with being frustrated. It’s amazing how all these nasty 
emotions decide to visit me together.

‘I’m  trying   to  find  out,’   Vroom   said,   clinking   open   a  window   on   his 
screen. ‘The Western Computers account is really suffering. If we lose that 
account, the call center will sink.’

‘Crap. I heard something about it from Shefali. I think the website we 

made was too useful. People have stopped calling us,’ I said.

A visitor in our bay interrupted our conversation. I knew he was the 
systems guy, as he had three pages on his belt and two memory cards around 
his neck.

Priyanka told him about the problem and made him listen to the static.
The systems guy asked us to disconnect our lines for ten minutes.
Everyone removed their headsets. I saw Esha adjusting her hair. She 
does it at least ten times a night. First she will remove the rubber band that’s 
tying up her hair and her hair will come loose. Then, she assembles it all 
together and ties it back again.

Her hair was light-colored and intensely curly towards the ends: the 
result of an expensive hair styling job, which cost as much as a minor surgery. 

Radhika said.

‘She is not sweet—‘ Vroom began to say but Radhika interrupted him.
‘Shh Vroom. She is fine, just traditional.’
‘And that sucks, right? Vroom said.
‘Not at all. In fact, I like the cozy family feeling. They are only a little 
bit old-fashioned,’ Radhika  said and smiled.  I did not think the smile was 
genuine, but it was none of my business.

‘Yeah right. Only a little. As in always cover your head with your sari 

types,’ Vroom said.

It didn’t even look that nice if you ask me. Naturally curly hair is one thing, 
but processed curly hair looks like tangled telephone wires.

I saw Vroom stare at Esha. It is never easy for guys to work with a hot 
girl in office. I mean, what are you supposed to do? Ignore their sexiness and 
stare at your computer? Sorry, somehow I don’t think men were designed to 
do that.

Radhika   took   her   pink   wool   out   from   her   bag   and   started   to   knot 
frantically Military Uncle’s system was still working and somehow glued to his 
monitor.

‘What are you knitting?’ Esha turned to Radhika.
‘A scarf for my mother-in-law. Damn sweet she is, feels cold at night,’ 

‘They make you cover your head?’ Esha asked, speaking through teeth 

clenched around her rubber band.

‘They don’t  make  me do anything, Esha. I am willing to follow their 

culture. All married women in their house do it,’ Radhika said.

‘Still it is a bit weird,’ Esha said.
‘Anyway, I tool it as a challenge. I love Anuj and he said he came as a 
package. But yeah, sometimes I miss wearing low waist jeans like you wore 
the day before.’

I was amazed Radhika  remembered what Esha wore the day before. 
Only women have this special area in the brain that keeps track of everything 
they and their friends wore the last fifty times.

‘You think those jeans?’ Esha said, her eyes lighting up.
‘I love them. But I guess you need the right figure for them,’ Radhika 
said.   ‘Anyways,   sorry   to   change   the   topic   guys,   but   we’re   forgetting 
something here.’

‘What? The systems?’ I asked, as I looked under the table. The systems 
guy   lurked   within,   in   a   jungle   wires.   He   told   me   would   need   ten   more 
minutes.

I checked my watch. I was 11:20 p.m. I wondered if Bakshi would be 

coming for his daily rounds soon.

‘Not   the   static,’   Radhika   said   as   she   kept   her   knitting   aside.   ‘Miss 

Priyanka has some big news for us, remember?’

‘Oh yes. C’mon Priyanka tell us,’ Esha screamed. Military Uncle looked 
up from his screen for a second, and then went back to work. I wondered if 
he’d been this quiet when he lived with his son and daughter-in-law.

‘Okay I do have something to tell you,’ Priyanka said with a sheepish 
grin,   making   her   two   dimples  more   prominent.   She   brought   out   a   box   of 
sweets from her large plastic bag.

‘Whatever your news is, we do get to eat the sweets, right? Vroom 

wanted to know.

‘Of   course,’   Priyanka   said,   carefully   opening   the   red   cellophane 
wrapping on the box. I hate it when she is so methodical. Just trip the damn 
wrapping off, I thought. Anyway, it was not my business. I looked under the 
table for a few seconds, as if to help the systems guy. Of Course, my ears 
were focused on Priyanka’s every word.

‘So,   what’s   up?   Oh   milk   cake,   my   favourite,’   Radhika   said,   even   as 

Vroom jumped to grab the first piece.

‘I’ll tell you, but you guys have to swear it won’t leave WASG,’ Priyanka 
said. She offered the box to Radhika and Esha. Radhika took two pieces, while 
Esha broke the tiniest piece possible with human fingers. I guess the low-cut 
jeans figure comes at a price.

‘Of course we won’t tell anyone. I hardly have any friends outside the 

WASG. Now tell please,’ Esha said and wiped her long fingers with a tissue.

‘Well, let’s just say, my mom is the happier person on earth today,’ 

Priyanka said.

rebellious daughter.’

‘No riddles man. Just tell and the story,’ Vroom said.
‘Well, you know my mom and her obsession for an NRI match for her 

‘Uh-uh, Radhika nodded as she ate her milk cake.
‘So these family friends of ours brought a proposal for me. It came from 
one of their relatives in Seattle. I would have said no like always. However, 
this time, I saw the pictures, which were cute. I spoke to the guy on the 
phone—he   sounded   decent.   He   works   in   Microsoft—so   is   doing   well.   His 
parents are in Delhi and I met them today. Nice people,’ Priyanka said and 
paused to break a piece for herself. She could have broken a smaller piece, I 
thought, but it was not really my business.

‘And,’ Esha said, her eyes opened wide and starting at Priyanka.
‘I don’t know, just something clicked or what,’ Priyanka said, playing 
with her milk cake rather than eating it. ‘They asked for my decision upfront 
and I said—yes.’

‘Waaaoooow!   Oh   wow!’   the   girls   screamed   at   their   highest   pitch 
possible.   The   system   guy   shook   in   terror   under   the   table.   I   told   him 
everything was fine and asked him to continue. At least everything was fine 
outside. Inside, I had a burning feeling, like someone had tossed a hot coal in 
my stomach.

Radhika and Esha got up to hug Priyanka as if India had won the World 
Cup or something. People get married everyday. Did these girls really have to 
create a scene? I wished the phones would start working again so I did not 
have to listen to his nonsense.

I looked at my computer screen and saw that Microsoft Word was open. 

Angrily I closed all windows with the Microsoft logo on it.

‘Congratulations, Priyanka,’ Vroom said, ‘that’s big news.’
Even  Military  Uncle   got   up   and  came   to  shake   hands  with  Priyanka. 
Grown ups like it when young people decide to get married. Of course, he was 
back at his desk in twenty seconds.

‘This deserves more than milk cake. Where is our treat?’ Esha asked. 

Girls like Esha hardly eat anything, but still jump around asking for treats.

‘Treat   will   come   guys,’   Priyanka   said,   her   smile   taking   permanent 
residence on her face. ‘I have only said yes. No ceremonies have happened 
yet.’

‘You’ve met the guy?’ Vroom said.
‘No, he’s in Seattle. But we spoke for hours on the phone. And I have 

seen his picture. He is cute. Want to see the photo?’ Priyanka said.

‘No thanks,’ I blurted out in reflex. Damn, I could not believe I’d said 

that by sheer luck, I had not said it loud enough for Priyanka to hear.

‘Huh? You said something?’ Priyanka asked, looking at me.
I shook my head and pointed under the table. Yes, my only focus was to 

fix the phones.

towards me.

down.’

‘Do you want some milk cake?’ Priyanka asked and shunted the box 

‘No, thanks,’ I said and slid the box back.
‘I thought milk cake was your favorite.’
‘Not anymore. My tastes have changed,’ I said. ‘And I’m trying to cut 

‘Not eve n a small piece?’ she asked and titled her head. At some stage 

of my life, I sued to find that head-tilt cute, but today I remained adamant.

I shook my head. Our eyes locked. When you have shared a relationship 
with someone, the first change is in how you look into each other’s eyes. The 
gaze becomes more fixed, and it is hard to pull away from it.

‘Aren’t you going to say anything?’ Priyanka said. When girls say that, 

it’s not really a question. It means they want you to say something.

‘About what? The phone lines? They’ll be fixed in ten minutes,’ I said.
‘Not that. I’m getting married, Shyam.’
‘Oh really,’ I said, as if this were first time I had heard the news.
‘I just said yes to a proposal today,’ she said.
‘Good,’ I said and turned to my screen.
‘Show us the picture!’ Esha screamed, as if Priyanka was going to show 
her Brad Pitt naked or something. Priyanka took out a photograph from her 
handbag and passed it around. I saw it from a distance: he looked like a 
regular software geek, similar to the guy under our table, but with better 
clothes. He stood straight with his stomach pulled in—an old trick any guy with 
a paunch applies when he gets his picture clicked. He wore glasses, and had a 
super neat hairstyle as if his mom clutched his cheeks and combed his hair 
every   morning.  Actually,   she   just   might   have   for   this   ‘arranged  marriage’ 
picture.   He   was   standing   with   the   statue   of   Liberty   in   the   background, 
perhaps to emphasize that he was an NRI match and this better than others. 
His forced smile made him look like a total loser if you ask me—like the kind 

to Radhika.

the picture.

look at us.

you. Okay?’

away.

‘Yeah. Why?’
‘No. just expected a little more reaction. We’ve known each other for 

four years, more than anybody else on the desk.’

Radhika, Esha and Vroom turned their hands away from the picture to 

‘Reaction?’ I said. ‘I’m thought I said good.’
‘That’s all?’ Priyanka said. Her smile had left the building.
‘What?’ I said. ‘I’m busy trying to get the system fixed.’
Everyone continued to stare at me.
‘Okay,’ I said, ‘okay, Priyanka. This is  great  news. I am  so  happy for 

of guy who never spoke to a girl in college. However, now he was hot, and 
girls with dimples were ready to marry him without even meeting him.

‘He’s so cute. Like a little teddy bear,’ Esha said and passed the picture 

When girls call a guy ‘teddy bear’, they just mean he is nice but they 
will never be attracted to him. Girls may say they like such guys, but teddy 
bears never get to sleep with anyone. Unless of course their moms hunt the 
neighborhood for them.

‘Are you okay?’ Priyanka said to me. The others were busy analyzing 

‘You could have used a better tone,’ Priyanka said. ‘Anyway, I’ll just 

come back,’ she mumbled, and walked away quickly towards the ladies room.

‘What?   Why   is  everyone   staring   at   me?’   I   said   and   everyone   turned 

The systems gut finally came our from under the table.
‘Fixed?’ I said.
‘I   need   signal   testing   equipment,’   he   said,   wiping   sweat   off   his 
forehead.   ‘The   problem   could   be   outside.   Builders   are   digging   all   over 
Gurgaon right now, some stupid contractor may have dug over our lines. Just 
take a break while I come back. Call your manager here as well,’ he said and 
left.

I picked up the telephone to call Bakshi. The line was busy. I left a voice 

mail for him to come to the desk.

Priyanka returned from the restroom. I noticed she had washed her 

face. Her nose still has a drop of water on top of it.

‘Sounds like an easy night. I hope it never gets fixed,’ Radhika said, 

knotting ferociously.

‘Nothing better than a call center job if the phones are not working,’ 

Priyanka said and closed the box of sweets.

‘So tell us more, what is he like?’ Esha said.
‘Who? Ganesh?’ Priyanka asked.
‘His   name   is   Ganesh?   Nice,’   Esha   said   and   switched   on   her   mobile 
phone. Everyone else followed suit and several opening tones filled the room. 
Normally agents could not use cell phones in the bay, but it was okay to do so 
now as the system was down.

I had two text messages from Shefali: One wishing me goodnight, and 

another one wishing me sweet dreams and a cuddly night. I cringed.

‘Does Ganesh like to talk? Sometimes the software types are real quite,’ 

Radhika said.

 

‘Oh yes, he talks a lot. In fact, I might get a cal from him now because 
my phone is on,’ Priyanka said and smiled. ‘We’re still getting to know each 
other, so any communications good.’

‘You sound sooo happy,’ Esha said. Her ‘so’ lasted four seconds.
‘I  am  happy.  I can  see  what  Radhika  says  now  about  getting  a new 
family. Ganesh’s mom came home today and gave me a big gold chain. And 
she was all hugging me and kissing me.’

‘Sounds gross,’ Vroom said.
‘Shut up, Vroom,’ Esha said. ‘Oh Priyanka, you’re so lucky.’ 
Vroom   sensed   that   I   was   not   exactly   jumping   with   joy   at   the 

conversation.

‘Cigarette?’ he said.
I looked at my watch. It was 11:30, our usual time for taking a smoke. In 
any case, I preferred burning my lungs to sticking around to find out Ganesh’s 
hobbies.

#8

Vroom and I went to the call center parking lot Vroom leaned against his 
bike and lit two cigarettes with one matchstick. I looked at his tall and thin 
frame. If he weren’t so skinny, you’d say he was a stud. Still, a cigarette 
looked out of place on his boyish face. Perhaps conscious of the people who 
had called him Baby Face before, he always kept a one-day old stubble. He 
passed an already burning cigarette to me. I took a puff and let it out in the 
cold night air.

We kept quiet for a minute and I was thankful to Vroom for that. One 

finally thing guys do know is when to shut up.

Vroom finally spoke, starting with a neutral topic. ‘I need a break man. 

Good thing I’m going to Manali next weekend.’

‘Cool, Manali is really nice,’ I said.
‘I’m going with my school buddies. We might ride up there on bikes.’
‘Bikes? Are you buts, you’ll freeze to death.’
‘Two words: leather jackets. Anyway, when did you go there?’
‘Last year. We took a bus though,’ I said.
‘Who all went?’ Vroom said as he looked for a place to flick ash. He 
found none. He stepped to a corner of the parking lot and plucked two large 
leaves from a tree. We tapped our cigarette on the improvised ashtray.

‘Priyanka and I,’ I said and turned silent. Vroom did not respond either 

for ten seconds.

‘Fun?’ he finally said.
‘Yeah, it was great. Apart from the aches from the bus ride,’ I said.
‘Why, what happened?’
‘We took a bus at four in the morning from ISBT. Priyanka was in her 
anti-snob phase, so she insisted we take the ordinary slow bus and not the 
deluxe fast one. She also anted to enjoy the scenery slowly.’

‘And then?’
Then what? The moment the bus reached the highway, she learned on 
my shoulder and slept off. My shoulder cramped and my body turned sore. But 
apart from that horrible journey, it was great fun.’

‘She’s a silly girl,’ Vroom said. Letting out a big puff, his face smiling 

behind the smoke ring.

‘She is. You should have seen her then. She used to wear all these 
beads and FabIndia stuff all the time. And then she’d sit with the truck drivers 
and have tea.’

‘Wow. Can’t imagine Priyanka like that now,’ Vroom said.
‘Trust me, the girl has a wild side,’ I said and paused, as her face came 

to mind. ‘Anyway, it’s history now. Girls change.’

‘You bet. She’ll all set now.’
I nodded. I didn’t want to talk about Priyanka anymore. At least one 

part of me didn’t. The rest of my parts always wanted to talk about her.

‘NRI   catch,   Microsoft   and   all.   Not   bad,’   Vroom   continued   as   he   lit 

another cigarette. I narrowed my eyes at him.

‘What?’ he said. It’s in my daily quota. It is only my third of five.’ He 

exhaled a giant cloud.

‘It’s a little too quick, isn’t it?’ I said.
‘What? The cigarette? I need it today.’
‘Not   theat.   Priyanka’s   wedding.   Don’t   you   think   she   is   deciding   too 

fast?’

said.

‘Fast? C’mon man, you don’t get matches like this everyday. He is in 

freaking Microsoft. As good as they get. He is MS Groom 1.1—deluxe edition.’

‘What is the deal with Microsoft? Good job?’
‘Dude, I’m sure he packs close to a hundred grand a year.’
‘What is that? A hundred thousand US dollars a year?’
Vroom nodded. I tried to convert hundred thousand US dollars to rupees 
and divide it by twelve to get the monthly salary. There were too many zeros 
and it was a tough calculation to do in my head. I racked my brain for a few 
seconds.

‘Stop calculating in rupees,’ Vroom said and smiled.
‘I’m not doing any calculations.’
‘Priyanka’s got a catch. I’m telling you,’ Vroom repeated.
He paused and looked at me. His eyes were wet like a puppy’s brown 

and kind to look at. I could see why girls flocked to him. It was the eyes.

‘I’m going to ask you a question. Will you answer it honestly?’ Vroom 

‘Sure.’
‘Are you upset she is getting married? I know you have feelings for her.’
‘No,’   I   said   and   stated   laughing.   ‘I   just   find   it   a   bit   strange.   But   I 
wouldn’t say I’m upset. That is too strong a word. It is not like we’re going 
around now or anything. No sir, I am not upset.’

Vroom   waited   while   I   continued   to   laugh   exaggeratedly.   When   I’d 
stopped he said, ‘Okay, don’t bullshit me. What happened to your re-proposal 
plans?’

I remained silent.
It’s okay man. You can tell me.’
I   sighed,   ‘Well,   of   course   I   feel   for   her.   But   they   are   just   vestigial 

feelings.’

‘Vesti what?’
‘Like vestigial organs. They serve no purpose or value. But they can give 
you a pain in the appendix. Same with my feelings for Priyanka. I’m supposed 
to   have   moved   on,   but   obviously   it   hasn’t   happened.   Meanwhile,   MR   NRI 
comes and gives me a kick in the rear end,’ I said.

‘Talk to her. Don’t tell me you’re not going to,’ Vroom said and exhaled 

two smoke rings.

‘I was planning to real soon. I though we’d submit the website user 
manual and hopefully that would have made it easier for Boston to approve 

my promotion. How did I know there would be milk cake distribution tonight? 
How was it by the way? I didn’t touch it.’

‘Milk cake was great. Never sulk when food is at stable dude. Anyways, 

screw that. Listen, you still have some time. She has only said yes.’

‘I hope so. Though even as team leader, it’s hard to compete with Mr 

Microsoft,’ I said.

We remained silent for a few more seconds. Vroom spoke again.
‘Yeah man, Girls are strategic. They’ll take about love and romance and 
all,  that  crap—but when it  comes to  doing the deal,  they will choose the 
fattest chicken,’ he said, and bunched up the leaf ashtray so it became like a 
bowl.

‘I guess I can only become fat, not a fat chicken,’ I said.
‘Yeah, you need to be far, fresh and fluffy. Girls know their stuff. That’s 
why   you   shouldn’t   feel   so   upset.   We   aren’t   good   husband   material—just 
accept it.’

‘Thanks   Vroom,   that   really   makes   my   day.’   I   said.   I   did   agree   with 
Vroom   though.   It   was   evolution.   Maybe   nature   wanted   dimple-cheeked, 
software-geek, mini-Ganesh babies. They were of far more value to society 
than depressed, good-for-nothing junior Shyams.

‘And anyway, it’s the girl who always gets to choose. Men propose and 

women accept the proposal or, as in many cases, reject it.’

It’s true. Girls go around rejecting men like it is their birthright. They 
have no idea how much it hurts us. I read once (or maybe saw it during one of 
my Discovery Channel phases) that the reason for this is that the female of 
the species has to beat their offspring with a lot of effort. Hence they choose 
their mates carefully. Meanwhile, men dance around, spend cash, make them 
laugh, write stupid poems, anything to win them over. The only species where 
courting works in reverse is the sea horse. Instead of the females, the male 
sea horse bears the offspring: they carry baby sea horse eggs in their pockets. 
Guess what? The female sea horses are always hitting on the males, while the 
latter pucker their noses and get to pick the cutest female. I wished if I were 
a sea horse. How hard can it be to carry a couple of eggs in a backpack?

Vroom interrupted my thoughts.
‘But who knows. Priyanka isn’t like other girls, or maybe she is after all. 
Either way, don’t give up man. Try to get her back,’ Vroom said and patted 
my shoulder in encouragement.

‘Speaking of back, shouldn’t we be heading back to the bay?’ I said and 

looked at my watch, it’s 11:45 p.m.’

We passed the Western Computers main bay as we returned from the 
parking   lot.   The   main   bay   sounded   like   a   noisy   school,   except   the   kids 
weren’t talking to each other, but to customers. Monitor problem, viruses, 
strange   error   message—there   was   nothing   Connexions   could   not   help   you 
with.

‘Still looks busy,’ I said.

‘Not at all. People have told me call traffic is down forty percent. I think 
they’ll cut a lot of staff, or worst case scenario, cut all people and shift the 
client to the Bangalore center.’

‘Bangalore? What will happen here?’ I said.
They’ll close this poorly managed madhouse down. What else? That is 
what happens when people like Bakshi spend half their time playing politics 
with   other   managers,’   Vroom   said.   He   spotted   a   good   looking   girl   in   the 
Western Computers bay and pointed her out to me.

  ‘Close down!’ I said, after studying the pretty girl for half a second. 

‘Are you serious, what will happen to the hundreds of jobs here?’

‘Like they care. You think Bakshi cares?’ Vroom said and shrugged his 

lanky shoulders.

reached the WASG.

‘Crap   happens   in   life.   It   could   happen   tonight,’   Vroom   said   as   we 

#9

The systems guy was under the table again.
‘No calls yet. They’ve called for a senior engineer,’ Priyanka said.
‘It’s an external fault. Some cables are damaged I think. Gurgaon is 
going nuts with constructions,’ the systems guy said, as he emerged from 
under the table.

‘Bakshi knows?’ I said.
‘I don’t know,’ Priyanka said.
Vroom and I sat down at our desk.
‘It’s not too bad. Nice break,’ Esha said as she filed her nails with a 

weirdly shaped nail cutter.

Priyanka’s cell phone began to rung startling everyone.
‘Who is calling you so late?’ Radhika said, still knitting her scarf.’
‘Long distance I think,’ Priyanka said and smiled.
‘Oooh!’ Esha squealed, like a two-year-old on a bounce castle. What is 

the big deal about a long distance phone call? I thought.

‘Hi Ganesh. I just switched my phone on,’ Priyanka said. ‘I can’t believe 

you called so soon.’

I could not hear Ganesh’s response. Thank God.
‘Fifteen times? I can’t believe you tried my number fifteen times…so 

sorry,’ Priyanka said, looking idiotic with happiness.

‘Yes   I’m   at   work.   But   it’s   really   chaotic   today.   Systems   are   down… 
Hello?... How come you’re working on Thanksgiving? Oh, nice of the Indians to 
offer to work…hello? Priyanka said.
‘What happened?’ Esha said.
‘There’s hardly any network,’ Priyanka said, shaking her phone as if 

that would improve the reception. I felt like shaking her.

‘We’re in the basement. Nothing comes into this black hole,’ Vroom 

said. He was surfing the internet, and was on the Formula I website.

‘Landline,’ Esha said, pointing to the spare phone on one desk. Every 
team   in   Connexions   had   a   spare   independent   landline   at   their   desk   for 
emergency use. ‘Tell him to call on the landline.’

‘Here?’ Priyanka asked, looking to me for permission.
Normally this would be unthinkable, but our systems were down so it 
did not really matter. Also, I did not want to look like a sore loser preventing 
a new couple from starting their romance.

I nodded and pretended to be absorbed by my computer screen. As the 
ad-hoc team leader, I had some powers. I could approve any personal calls. I 
could also listen in on any line on the desk on my headset. However, I could 
not listen in on the independent emergency phone. Not unless. I went under 
the table and tapped it.

‘Tap the landline,’ a faint voice echoed in my head.
‘No, it’s wrong,’ I said and mentally reprimanded myself.
I could still hear one side of the conversation though.

‘Hello… Ganesh, call the landline… yes 2246343 and 11, for Delhi… Call 
after   ten   minutes,   our   boss   might   come   on   his   rounds   soon…   I   knew   ten 
minutes   is   six   hundred   seconds,   I’m   sure   you’ll   survive,   she   laughed 
uncontrollably and hung up. When women laugh non-stop, they’re flirting. I 
hate Priyanka.

‘He sounds so cute,’ Esha said, stretching the last word to five times its 

normal length.

‘Enough is enough, I’m going to call Bakshi. We need to fix the systems,’ 
I said and stood up. I couldn’t bear the systems guy lurking under the table 
anymore. More than that, I could not bear six-hundred-seconds-without-you 
survival stories.

I   was   walking   towards   Bakshi’s   office   when   I   noticed   him   walking 

towards me.

‘Agent Sam, why aren’t you on your desk?’ Bakshi said.
‘I was looking for you sir,’ I said.
‘I’m all yours,’ Bakshi said as his face broke into a smile. He came and 

placed his arm around my shoulder. I hate it when he does that.

Bakshi and I returned to WASG. Everyone heard the sound of Bakshi’s 
heavy steps. Radhika hid her knitting gear under the table. Esha pout her nail 
file in her bag. Vroom opened his screen to an empty MSWord document.

The systems guy came out from under the table and called his boss, the 

head of the IT department.

guy nodded his head.

‘Looks like we have technology issues here’ Bakshi said and the systems 

The head of IT came soon after. He and the systems guy discussed geek 
stuff   between   themselves   in   so-called   English.   When   the   discussions   were 
over, the IT head ranted out incomprehensible technical details to us. I only 
understood that the system was under a strain: eighty percent of the WASG 
capacity was damaged, and the remaining twenty percent could not handle 
the current load.

‘Hmmm,’   Bakshi   said,   his   left   hand   rubbing   his   chin   ‘hmmm…that’s 

really bad, isn’t it?’

‘So, what do you want us to do?’ the IT head asked.
All eyes turned to Bakshi, it was a situation Bakshi hated—to be asked to 

take a decision or recommend action.

‘Hmmm,’ Bakshi said and flexed his knees, knee by slow knee, to buy 

time. ‘We really need a methodical game plan here.’

‘We can shut down the WASG system tonight. Western Computers main 

bay is running fine anyway,’ the junior IT guy suggested.

‘But, WASG has one lost all its capacity. Boston won’t like it if we shut 
the bay,’ the IT head said, referring to the Western Computers and appliances 
headquarters in Boston.

‘Hmmm,’  Bakshi  said   again  and   pressed  a   sweaty   palm  on   my  desk. 
‘Upsetting Boston will not be good at this time. We are already on a slippery 
slope at Connexions. Let’s try to be proactively oriented here.’

Vroom couldn’t resist a snigger at Bakshi’s jargon. He looked away and 

‘Sir, can I make a suggestion,’ I said, even though I should have kept my 

clenched his teeth.

trap shut.

‘What?’ Bakshi said.
‘We could take Bangalore’s help,’ I said, referring to the location of the 

second Western Appliances and Computers call center in India.

‘Bangalore?’ Bakshi and the IT head said in unison.
‘Yes sir. It is thanksgiving and call volumes are low. So Bangalore will be 
running light as well. If we pass most of our calls there, it will get busier for 
them, but it won’t overload them. Meanwhile, we can handle a limited flow 
here,’ I said.

‘That makes sense. We can easily switch the flow for a few hours. We 

can fix the systems here in the morning,’ the junior IT guy said.

‘That’s fine,’ I said. ‘And people will start their Thanksgiving dinner in 

the States soon, so call volumes will fall even more.’

Everyone on the desk looked at me and nodded. Secretly they were 
thrilled   at   the   easy   shift   tonight.   Bakshi,   however,   had   fallen   into   silent 
contemplation.

‘Sir, you heard what Shyam said. Let’s ask Bangalore. That is our only 

option,’ Priyanka said.

Bakshi remained silent and pondered for a few more seconds. I want to 

know what he actually thinks in these moments.

‘See, the thing is,’ Bakshi said and paused again,’…aren’t we comparing 

apples to oranges here?’

‘What?’ Vroom looked at Bakshi with a disgusted expression. 
I wondered what Bakshi was talking about. Was I the apple? Was Delhi 

the orange? What fruit was Bangalore?

‘I have an idea. Why don’t we use Bangalore?’ Bakshi said and snapped 

his fingers.

‘But   that   is   what   Shyam—‘   the   junior   IT   guy   began,   but   Bakshi 

interrupted him. Poor junior IT guy, he isn’t familiar with Bakshi’s ways.

‘See, it sounds unusual, but sometimes you have to do out-of-the-box 

thinking. Bakshi said and tapped his head in self-administration.

‘Yes sir,’ I said. ‘That is a good idea. We have it all sorted now.’
‘Good,’ the IT guys said and started playing with the computer menus. 

Bakshi had a smug smile on his face.

Before the IT guys left they told us the WASG call volume would be 
super-light, maybe even less than twenty calls an hour. We were overjoyed, 
but kept a straight face before Bakshi.

‘See, problem solved,’ Bakshi said and spread his hands. ‘That is what 

I’m here for.’

‘Lucky us, sir,’ Priyanka said.
We thought Bakshi would leave, but he had other plans. ‘Shyam, as you 
are free tonight, can you help me with some strategic documents? You know, 
it will give you some exposure.’ 

‘What is it, Sir?’ I said, not happy about sacrificing my night.
‘These are ten copies of the monthly data sheets I just printed out,’ 
Bakshi said and held up some documents in his right hand. ‘For some reason 
the sheets didn’t come in order. It is ten page ones, then page twos and so 
on. Can you help fix this?’

‘You didn’t collate them. You can choose the option when you print,’ 

Vroom said.

option for brain transplants.

‘You can choose to collate?’ Bakshi asked, as if we’d told him about an 

‘Ye,’   Vroom   said   and   took   some   chewing   gum   from   his   drawer.   He 
popped a piece into his mouth. ‘Anyway, it is easier to take one printout and 
photocopy the est. comes out stapled too.’

‘I  need   to   upgrade  my   technical  skills.   Technology   changes  so  fast,’ 

Bakshi said. ‘But Shyam, can you help arrange and staple them this time?’

‘Sure,’ I said. As if I had a choice.
Bakshi dumped the sheets on my table and left the room.
Priyanka looked at me with her mouth open.
‘What?’ I said.
‘I can’t believe it,’ She shook her head. ‘Why do you let him do this to 

‘C’mon Priyanka, leave Shyam alone. Bakshi runs his life,’ Vroom said.
‘Exactly.   Because   he   lets   him.   Why   can’t   people   stand   up   for 

you?’

themselves?’

 I don’t know why I can’t stand up for myself, but I definitely can’t stand 
Priyanka’s rhetorical questions. She doesn’t understand the point, and then 
asks the world out aloud.

I   tried   to   ignore   her.   However,   her   words   had   affected   me.   It   was 
difficult to focus on the sheets. I stacked the first set and was about to staple 
them when Vroom said, He can’t take on Bakshi right now. Not at this time, 
Priyanka, they are in the mood to fire people.’

‘Yes   thanks   Vroom.   Can   someone   explain   reality?   I   need   to   make   a 
living. I don’t have Mr Microsoft PowerPoint waiting for me in Seattle,’ I said 
and pressed the stapler hard. I missed and staple pin pierced my finger.

‘Oww!’ I screamed loud enough to uproot Military Uncle from his desk.
‘What happened?’ Priyanka said and stood up.
I lifted my finger to show the streaks of blood. A couple of drops split 

onto Bakshi’s document.

The girls squealed ‘eews’ in rapid succession.
‘Symbolism, dude. Giving your life blood to this job,’ Vroom said. ‘Can 

someone give this guy a band-aid before he makes me throw up?’

‘I have a band-aid,’ Esha said as the girls came up and surrounded e. 

Western love to repair an injury—as long as it is not to gross.

‘That’s bad,’ Esha said, taking out a band-aid from her bag. She had like 

‘It’s nothing. Just a minor cut,’ I said. I clenched my teeth hard as it 

fifty of them.

hurt like hell.

Priyanka took out a few tissues from her bag. She held my finger and 

cleaned the blood around it.

‘Ouch!’ I screamed.
‘Oh, the staple is still in there,’ she said. ‘We need forceps. Forceps 

anyone?’

Esha had forceps in her handbag, which I thin k she uses to rip her 
eyebrows   out.   Girl’s   handbags   have   enough   to   make   a   survival   kit   for 
Antarctica.

Priyanka held the forceps and went to work my finger with a surgeon’s 

concentration.

‘Here’s the culprit,’ she said as she pulled out a staple pin drenched in 
blood. I swear, ever since I’ve developed a fear of staple—staplophobia, you 
can call it.

Priyanka wiped my figure and then struck the band-aid on it. With no 
more fun, bloody sights to see, everyone returned to their seats. I went back 
to collating sheets. Perhaps my abilities really did lie in mindless labor.

Esha and Radhika began talking about Bakshi.
‘He had no idea what IT was saying,’ Radhika said.
‘Yeah, but did you see his face?’ Esha said. ‘He looked like he was doing 

a CBI investigation.’

I looked at Priyanka. The word CBI brought back memories. Even as I 

collation Bakshi’s sheets, my mind drifted to Pandara Road.

#  10   
My Past Dates with 
Priyanka—II

Havemore Restaurant, Pandara Road
Nine months before this night

‘Shyam,’ Priyanka said as she tried to push me away. ‘This is not the 

place to do these things. This is Pandara Road.’

‘Oh really,’ I said, refusing to move away. We were sitting on a corner 
table. A carved wooden screen partially hid us. ‘What’s wrong with Pandara 
Road?’ I said, continuing to kiss her.

‘This is a family place,’ she said; she spread a palm on my face and 

pushed me back again, firmly this time.

‘So, families get made by doing these things.’
‘Very funny. Anyway, you chose this place. I hope the food is as good as 

‘You   are   so   cute,’   she   said.   Her   smile   made   her   eyes   crinkle.   She 
pinched my cheeks and fed me a little vinegar-onion from the table. Hardly 
romantic, but I liked it. 

She moved he hand away quickly when she saw a family being led to the 
table adjacent to us. The family consisted of a young married couple, their 

you said it was.’

‘It’s the best in Delhi,’ I said. We had come to Havemore Restaurant, 
one of the half-dozen overpriced but excellent restaurants on Pandara Road. 
We had done enough museums. After the Rail Museum, we had gone to the 
Planetarium (the dark empty theatre with its romantic possibilities was fun, I 
admit),   the   Natural   History   Museum,   the   Doll   Museum   and   the   Science 
museum. According to Priyanka, museum offered good privacy, great gardens 
and cheap canteens.

‘A hundred and thirty bucks for daal’ Priyanka exclaimed as she opened 
the menu. Her kohl-lined eyes expression of a stunned cartoon character. It 
was embarrassing, especially as the waite.- was already at out table to take 
the order.

‘Just order okay?’ I said in a hushed voice.
Priyanka took five more minutes to place the order. Here is how she 

decides. Step two: r-sort the cheaper ones based on calories.

‘One naan, no butter. Yellow daal,’ she said as I glared at her.
‘Okay, not yellow, black daal,’ she said. ‘And…’
‘And one shahi paneer,’ I said.
‘You always order the same thing, black daal and shahi paneer,’ she 

‘Yes, same girl, same food. Why bother experimenting when you already 

made a face.

have the best,’ I said.

little daughters and an old lady. The daughters were twins, probably four 
years old.

The entire family had morose faces and no one said a word to each 
other. I wondered why they had come out when they could be grumpy for 
free at home.

‘Anyway,’ Priyanka said, ‘what’s the news?’
‘Not much, Vroom and I are busy with the troubleshooting website.’
‘Cool, how’s it coming along?’
‘Really well. Nothing fancy though: the best websites are simple. Vroom 
even checked out many sites meant for mentally handicapped people. He said 
if we can model it on such websites. Americans will surely be able to use it.’

‘They’re   not  that  dumb,’   Priyanka   laughed.   ‘Americans   invented 

computers remembers remember?’

The waiter came with our food.
‘Yeah, American has like ten smart guys. The rest call us at night,’ I 

said, as I tore a piece of my naan and dipped it in the daal.

‘I agree the people who call us are pretty thick. I’m like—figure out 

where the power button is, hello/’ she said.

She put micro-portions of food on her plate.
‘Eat properly,’ I said. ‘Stop dieting all the time like Esha.’
‘I am not that hungry,’ she said, even as I forcefully gave her human 

My chest inflated with pride as if he had spent all night cooking the 

‘Of Course you love to gossip. Whenever someone starts with “don’t you 

anymore’, that to me is a juicy tit-bit of gossip coming,’ I said.

Priyanka blushed and the tip of the nose turned tomato-red. She looked 
cute as hell. I would have kissed her right then, but the grumpy family next to 
us   was   beginning   to   argue   murmurs.   I   did   not   want   to   spoil   the   somber 
ambience for them.

‘Okay so may be I gossip, but only a little bit,’ Priyanka relented. ‘But I 

read somewhere, gossip is good for you.

‘Oh really?’ I teased.
‘Yes, it’s a sign you’re interested in people and care for them.’
‘That   is   so   lame,’   I   burst   out   laughing,   pointing   my   spoon   at   her. 
‘Anyway, what about Esha. I know Vroom has the hots for her. But does she 
like him/’

‘No   Shyam,   which   is   old   news.   She   has   rejected   Vroom’s   proposal 
before. The latest is that she had signed up for the Femina Miss India contest. 

‘Hey, did I tell you about Esha?’ Don’t tell anyone,’ she said, her voice 

I shock my head. ‘You love to gossip. Don’t you? Your name should be 

‘I never gossip,’ she said, waving a fork at me solemnly. ‘Oh my God, 

portions of food.

dipping, eyebrow dancing.

Miss Gossip FM 99.5,’ I said.

the food is so good here.’

dishes myself.

Last week she is five-five, the minimum is five-six. Radhika saw her cry in the 
toilet.’

‘Oh wow! Miss India?’
‘C’mon, she is not that pretty. She should really stop this modeling trip 
of   hers.   God,   she   is   so   thin   though.   Okay,   I’m   not   eating   anymore.’   She 
pushed her plate away.

‘Stupid, eat. You want to be happy on thin?’ I said, pushing her plate 

back towards her.

‘Thin.’
‘Shut   up,   eat   properly.   The   name   of   the   restaurant   should   tell   you 
[something. And s for Esha, well too bad Miss India didn’t work out. However, 
trying doesn’t hurt,’ I said.

‘Well,  she was crying. So it hurt  her.  After all,  she’s come to Delhi 

against her parent’s wishes. It’s not easy struggling alone,’ she said.

I nodded.
We finished our meal and the waiter reappeared like a genie to clear 

our plates.

‘Dessert?’ I said
‘No way. I’m too full,’ Priyanka said, placing her hand on her neck to 
show just how full. She is way too dramatic sometimes, just like her mom. Not 
that I dare tell her that. 

‘Okay, one kulfi please,’ I said to the waiter.
‘No, order gulab jamun, no?’ she said.
‘Huh? I thought you didn’t want…okay, one gulab jamun please.’
‘Same. We haven’t had a cry fest since last week’s showdown, so that 

alone is a reason to celebrate. Maybe I will have half a gulab jamun.’

‘And what happened last week?’
‘Last week? Oh yes, my uncles were over for dinner. So picture this: 
dinner ends and we are all having butterscotch ice cream at the dinning table. 
One   uncle   mentioned   that   my   cousin   was   getting   married   to   a   doctor,   a 
cardiac surgeon or something,’ Priyanka said.

The water came and gave us the gulab jamuns. I took a bite.
‘Ouch, careful, these are hot,’ I said, blowing air out ‘Anyway, what 

happened then?’

jamun.

‘So I’m eating my ice cream and my mother screams “Priyanka, make 
sure you marry someone well settled”.’ The latter phrase was said in falsetto.
‘I’m going to be a team leader soon,’ I said and fed her a slice of gulab 

‘Relax, Shyam,’ Priyanka said, as she took a bite and patted my arm. ‘it 
has nothing to do with you. The point is how could she spring it on me in front 
of everyone. Like, why can’t just have ice cream like the others. Why does 
my   serving   have   to   come   with   this   hot   guilt   sauce.   My   younger   brother, 
nobody says anything to him while he stuffs his face.’

I laughed and signaled for the bill.
‘So what did you do then?’ I said.
‘Nothing. I slammed my spoon down on the plate and left the room.’

‘Major drama, you are no less,’ I said.
‘Guess what she says then, to everyone, “This is what I get for bringing 
her up and loving her so much. She doesn’t care. I nearly died in labour when 
she was born, but she doesn’t care”.’

I laughed uncontrollably as Priyanka did an outstanding imitation of her 
mother. The bill arrived and my eyebrows shot up for a second as I paid the 
four hundred and sixty three bucks.

We stood up to leave and the grumpy family’s voices reached us.
‘What to do? Since the day this woman came to our house, our family’s 
fortunes have been ruined,’ the old woman was saying. ‘The Agra girl’s side 
were offering to set up a full clinic. I don’t know where our brains were 
then.’

The daughter-in-law had tears in her eyes. She had not touched her 

food. The man was eating nonchalantly.

‘Look at her now, sitting there with a stiff face. Go, go to hell now. Not 
only did you not bring anything, now you have dumped these two girls like 
two curses on me,’ the mother-in-law said.

I looked at the little girls. They had identical plaints with cute pink 
ribbons in them. The girls were holding one hand of their mother each. They 
looked scared.

Priyanka  was starting at them. I noticed they had ordered kulfi  and 
wondered if I should have done the same and at least saved my now scalded 
tongue.

‘Say   something   now,   you   silent   statue,’   the   mother-in-law   said   and 

shook the daughter-in-law’s shoulders.

‘Why doesn’t she say anything?’ Priyanka whispered to me.
‘Because she can’t,’ I said. ‘When you have a bad boss, you can’t say 

anything.’

‘Who will pay for these two curses? Say something now,’ the mother-in-

law said. The daughter-in-law’s tears came down faster.

‘I’ll say something,’ Priyanka shouted, facing the mother-in-law.
The grumpy family turned to look at us in astonishment. I looked for a 

deep to hide myself from the embarrassment.

‘Who are you?’ she husband asked, probably his first words during the 

entire meal

her husband I presume?’

‘We’ll worry about that later,’ Priyanka said, ‘but who the hell are you/ 

‘Huh? Yes I am. Madam, this is a family matter,’ he said. 
‘Oh really? You call this is a family? Doesn’t look like a family to me,’ 
Priyanka said. ‘I just see an old shrew and a loser wimp who are troubling 
these girls. Don’t you have any shame? Is this what you married her for?’

‘See, here is another one,’ the mother-in-law said. ‘Look at the girls of 

today” don’t know how to talk—look at her, eyes made up like a heroine.’

‘The young girls know how to talk and behave. It is you old ones who 
need   to   be   taught   a   lesson.   These   are   your   granddaughters,   and   you   are 

calling   them   curses?’   Priyanka   said,   her   nose   a   cuter   red   than   before.   I 
wanted to takes picture of that nose.

‘Whom are you madam? What is your business here?’ the husband said, 

this time in a firmed voice.

‘I’ll tell you who I am,’ Priyanka said and fumbled in her handbag. She 
took out her call center id card and flashed it for a nanosecond. ‘Priyanka 
Sinha, CBI, Women’s Cell.’ 

‘What?’ the husband said, in half-disbelief.
‘What is your car number?’ Priyanka said, talking in a flat voice.
‘What?’ Why?’ the bewildered husband asked.
‘Or should I go outside to check,’ she said and glanced at the keys on 

the table. ‘Santro, isn’t it?’

‘DGI 463. Why?’ the husband said.
Priyanka   took   out   her   cell   phone   and   pretended   to   call   a   number. 
‘Hello? Sinha here. Please retrieve records on DGI 463...yes...Santro…thanks.’

‘Madam, what is going on?’ the husband said, his voice quivering.
‘Three  years.  Harassing women  in  punishable  for  three  years.  Quick 

trial, no appeal,’ Priyanka said and started t the mother-in-law.

The old woman pulled one of the twin granddaughter onto her lap.
‘What?   Madam   this   is   just   a   f-f-f-family   affair   and…’   the   husband 

stammered.

‘Don’t’ say family!’ Priyanka said, her voice loud.
‘Madam,’ the mother-in-law said, her tone now sweet, as if someone 
had soaked her vocal cords in gulab jamuns, ‘we are just here to have a meal. 
I don’t even let her cook see, we just had—’

‘—Shut up! We have your records now. We will keep track. If you mess 

around, your son and you can have lost of meals together—in jail.’

‘Sorry madam,’ the husband said with folded hands. He asked for the 

bill and fumbled for cash. Within a minute, they had paid and left.

I looked at Priyanka with my mouth open.
‘Don’t say anything,’ she said, ‘let’s go.’
‘CBI?’ I said.
‘Don’t. Let’s go.’
We sat in the Qualis I had borrowed from the call center driver.
‘Stupid old witch,’ Priyanka said. I started to drive. Five minutes later, 

Priyanka turned to me. ‘Okay, you can say what you want now.’

‘I love you,’ I said.
‘What? Why this now?’
‘Because, I love it when you stand up for something that you feel for. 
And that you do such a horrible job of acting like a CBI inspector. I love it 
when  you want  to order  the cheapest  dishes only because I’m  paying  for 
them. I love the kohl in your eyes. I love it when your eyes light up when you 
have gossip for me. I love it that you say you don’t want dessert and then ask 
me   to   change   mine   so   you   can   have   half.   I   love   your   stories   about   your 
mother. I love it that you believe in me and are patient with my career. 
Actually, you know what, Priyanka?’ I said.

‘What?’
‘I may not be a heart surgeon—but the one little heart I have, I have 

given it to you.’

Priyanka laughed aloud and put her hand on her face. ‘Sorry,’ she said 
and shook her head, still laughing. ‘Sorry, you were doing so well, but for the 
heart surgeon line. Now, that is seriously cheesy.’

‘You know what,’ I said and removed one hand from the steering wheel 

to tweak her nose. ‘They should put you in jail for killing romantic lines.’

#11

‘I can’t believe this,’ Radhika said and threw her mobile phone on her 

desk, breaking up my Pandara Road dream.

Everyone turned to look at her. She covered her face with her hands 

and took a couple of deep breaths.

‘What’s up,’ Priyanka said.
‘Nothing,’ Radhika said and heaved a sigh. She looked upset, but also 
younger at the same time. Five years ago, Radhika must have been pretty, I 
thought.

‘Tell no,’ Esha said.
‘It’s Anuj. Sometimes he can be so unreasonable.’ She said and showed 

her phone to Esha. On the screen was an SMS message.

‘What is it?’ Priyanka said.
‘Read it out,’ Radhika said as she fumbled through her bag for her anti-

‘Really? Okay.’ Esha said and started reading the message:

migraine pills. ‘damn, I only have one pill left.’ 
’Show   elders   respect.   Act   like   a   daughter-in-law   should. 
Goodnight.’

‘What did I do wrong/ I was in a hurry, that is all, Radhika mumbled to 

herself as she took her pill with a sip of water.

Esha put a hand on her shoulder.
‘What   happened?’   Esha   asked   softly.   Women   do   this   so   well:   a   few 
seconds   ago   she   was   squealing   in   excitement   over   Ganesh,   now   she   was 
whispering in concern over Anuj. 

‘Anuj is in Kolkata on tour. He called home and my mother-in-law told 
him “Radhika made a face when I told her to crush the almonds a bit finer”. 
Can you believe it? I was running to catch the Qualis and still made her milk,’ 
Radhika said and started to press her forehead.

‘Is this what mom and son talk about?’ Priyanka said.
Radhika continued, ‘And then she told him, “I am old, if the pieces are 
too big they will choke my food pipe. Maybe Radhika is trying to kill me.” Why 
would she say something so horrible?’

‘And you’re still knitting a scarf for her?’ Vroom said, pointing at the 

knotting needles.

‘Trust   me,   being   a   daughter-in-law   is   harder   than   being   a   model,’ 
Radhika said. The pill was starting to have an effect: her face was looking 
calm again. ‘Anyway, leave my boring life and me. What’s up? Ganesh calling 
soon or what?’

‘Are you okay?’ Esha said, still holding Radhika’s arm.
‘Yes,   I’m   fine.   Sorry   guys,   I   overreacted.   It’s   just   a   little 

miscommunication between Anuj and me.’

‘Looks like your mother-in-law likes melodrama. She should meet you 

mother,’ Priyanka said.

‘Really?’ Radhika said.

‘Oh yes. She is the Miss Universe of melodrama. We cry together at least 
once a week. Though today, she is on cloud nine,’ Priyanka said. She pulled 
the landline closer to her.

My attention was diverted by a call flashing on my screen.
‘I’ll take it,’ I said, raising my hand. ‘Western Appliances, Sam speaking, 

how may I help you?’

It was one of my weird calls of the night. The caller was from Virginia 
and was having trouble defrosting his fridge. It took me four minutes to figure 
out   the   reason.   Turns   out   the   caller   was   a   ‘big   person’,   which   is   what 
Americans call fat people. Hence his fingers were too thick to turn the tiny 
knob   in   the   fridge’s   compartment   that   would   activate   the   defrosting 
mechanism. I suggested that he use a screwdriver or a knife. Fortunately, that 
solution worked after seven attempts.

‘Thanks you for calling Western Appliances, sir,’ I said and ended the 

‘More politeness, agent Sam. Be more courteous,’ I heard Bakshi’s voice 

and felt his heavy breath on my neck.

‘Sir, you again?’ I said and turned around. Bakshi’s face was as shiny as 

ever. So oily, he probably slipped off his pillow every night.

‘Sorry, I forgot something important,’ he said. ‘Have you guys done by 
the   Western   Computers   website   manual?   I   am   finally   sending   the   project 
report to Boston.’

‘Yes sir. Vroom and I finished it yesterday.’ I said and took out a copy 

from my drawer.

‘Hmm,’ Bakshi said as he scanned the cover sheet.

call.

Western computers troubleshooting Website
User Manual and Project Details

Developed by Connexions, Delhi

Shyam Mehra and Varun Malhotra
(Sam Mason and Victor Mell)

‘Do you have a soft copy that you can email me/’ Bakshi said. ‘Boston 

‘Yes sir,’ Vroom said, pointing to his computers, ‘I have it stored here. 

wants it urgently.’

I’ll send it to you.’

‘Also, did you dot eh collation, Sam?’ 
‘Yes sir,’ I said and passed him the ten sets.
‘Excellent. I empowered you, and you delivered the output. Actually, I 

have another document, the board meeting invite. Can you help?’

‘What do I have to do?’ I said.
‘Here   is  a  copy,’   Bakshi   said   and   gave   me   a   five-page   document.   ‘I 
didn’t print  more  this time.  Can  you  Xerox  ten  copies for  me please? My 
secretary is off today.’

‘There are rumors in the Western Computers main bay. We just want to 

know it we will be fine,’ Vroom said.

‘Western Appliances won’t be affected, right/’ Esha said.
Bakshi took a deep breath and said, ‘I can’t say much. All I can say is we 

are under pressure to right size ourselves.’

‘Right size?’ Radhika asked in genuine confusion.
‘That   means   people   are   getting   fired,   right?’   Vroom   said.   Right   size 

never meant otherwise.

Bakshi did not respond.
‘Sir,   we   need   to   increase   our   sales   force   to   get   new   clients.   Firing 
people is not the answer,’ Vroom said, with a boldness that was high even by 
his standards.

Bakshi had a smirk on his face as he turned to Vroom. He put his hand 
on   Vroom’s   shoulder.   ‘I   like   your   excitement   Mr   Victor,’   he   said,   ‘but   a 
seasoned management has to study all underlying variable and come up with 
an optimal solution. It is not so simple.’

‘But   sir,   we   can  get   more…’   Vroom   was  saying   as  Bakshi   patted  his 

Vroom waited to ensure that Bakshi was out of the room before he 

shoulder twice and left.

spoke again.

‘Err. Sure Sir, just Xeroxing right?’
Bakshi nodded.
‘Sir,’ Vroom said, ‘what is the board meeting for?’
‘Nothing, just routine management issues,’ Bakshi said.
‘Are people going to get fired?’ Vroom asked, his direct question making 

‘Err… ‘Bakshi said, at his usual loss for words when asked something 

everyone spring to attention.

meaningful. 

‘this   is   insanity.   Bakshi’s   fucked   up   the   place   and   they   are   firing 

innocent agents he said, his voice at shouting levels.

‘Stay clam,’ I said, and started assembling the sheets.
‘Yes stay calm. Like Mr Xerox Boy here—finds acceptance in everything,’ 

Priyanka said.

‘Excuse me,’ I said looking up. ‘Are you talking about me?’
Priyanka kept quiet. I felt agitated inside and just had to respond.
‘What is your problem? I come here, make fifteen grand a month and go 
home. It shucks that people are being fired, and I am trying to do my best to 
save my job. Overall, yes I accept my situation. And Vroom, before I forget, 
can you email Bakshi the user manual please?’

  ‘I’m doing it, Vroom said, as he clicked his mouse, ‘though what is 

happening here is still wrong.’

‘Don’t worry. We’ve done the website. We should be safe,’ I said.
‘You have pizza that often?’ Esha said.
‘Isn’t it unhealthy?’ Radhika asked. Despite the SMS argument, she was 

back to knitting her scarf. Knitting habits die hard I guess.

‘No way. Pizzas are the ultimate balanced diet. Look at the contents: 
grain   in   the   curst,   milk   protein   in   the   cheese,   vegetables   and   meat   as 
toppings. It has all the food groups. I read it on the Internet—pizza is good for 
you.’

‘You and your Net,’ Esha said. It was true. Vroom got all his information 
off the internet—bikes, jobs, politics,, dating tips and, as I had just learnt, 
pizza nutrition as well.

‘Pizzas   are   not   healthy.   I   gain   weight   so   fast   if   I   have   a   lot   of   it,’ 
Priyanka said, ‘especially with my lifestyle. I hardly get time to exercise. On 
top of that, I jut sit and work in a confined space.’

‘Priyanka’s last two words made my heart skip a beat. ‘Confined space’ 

means only one thing to me—that night at the 32nd Milestone disco.

#12
My Past Dates with 
Priyanka—III

32nd Miltestone, Gurgaon Highway
Seven months before this night

I should not really call this one a date, since this time it was a group 
thing with Vroom and Esha joining us. I argued earlier with Priyanka about 
going  out  with work  people,   but  she  told  me   I should  be  less anti-social. 
Vroom picked 32nd milestone and the girls agreed because the disc had no 
door-bitch.   According   to   Priyanka,   a   door-bitch   is   the   hostess   who   stands 
outside the disco. She screens every girl walking in, and if your waist is more 
than twenty-four inches, or if you were not wearing something right out of an 
item number, the door-bitch will raise an eyebrow at you like you are a fifty-
year-old aunty.

‘Really? I never noticed those door girls before,’ I said as we took stools 

at the bar.

‘It’s a girl to girl thing. They size you up, and unless you are drop dead 

gorgeous, you get that mental smirk,’ Priyanka said.

‘So why should you care? You  are gorgeous,’  I said.  She  smiled and 

‘Mental   smirk?   Girls   and   their   coded   communication.   Anyway,   drink 

pinched my cheek.

anyone?’ Vroom said.

‘Long Island Ice tea please,’ Esha said and I noticed how stunning she 
looked with make-up. She wore a black fitted top and black pants. Her pants 
were so tight, she would probably have to roll them down when removing 
them.

‘Long Island? Want to get drunk quick or what?’ I said.
‘C’mon. I need to de-stress. I ran around like mad last month chasing 
modeling agencies. Besides, I have to wash down last week’s one thousand 
calls,’ Esha said.

‘That’s right. Twelve hundred calls for me,’ Vroom said. ‘Let’s all have 

Long Islands.’

‘Vodka   cran   for   me   please,’   Priyanka   said.   She   wore   camel-colored 
pants and a pistachio-green sequined kurti. I had given her the kurti as a gift 
on her last birthday. She had just a hint of eyeliner and a gift on her last 
birthday. I preferred it to Esha’s Asian Paints job.

‘Any luck with modeling assignments?’ I idly asked Esha.
‘Not much. I did meet talent agent. He said he would refer me to some 
designers and fashion show producers. I need to be seen in those circles,’ 
Esha said as she pulled her top down to cover her navel.

Vroom went to the bartender to collect our drinks. I scanned the disc. 
The place had two levels: a dance floor on the mezzanine and a lounge bar on 
the first floor. A remixed version of Dil Chahta Hai played in the background. 
As it was Saturday night, the disc had more than three hundred customers. 
They were all rich, or at least had rich friends who could afford drinks at over 
Rs 300 a cocktail. Our budget was a lavish thousand bucks each: a treat for 
making it through the extremely busy summer period at the call center.

I noticed some stick-thin models on the dance floor. Their stomachs 
were so flat, If they swallowed a pill you would probably see an outline of it 
when it landed inside. Esha’s looks are similar, except she is a bit short.

‘Check it out. She is totally anorexic. I can bet on it,’ Priyanka said, 
pointing to a pale-complexioned model on the dance floor. She wore a top 
without any sleeves or neck or collar. I guess the girls call it ‘off-shoulder’. 
Defying physics, it did not slip off, though most men waited patiently. 

The   pale-complexioned   model   turned,   displaying   a   completely   bare 

back.

said,

wearing,’ Esha said.

‘Wow, I wish I were that thin. But, oh my god, look at what she is 

‘I can’t believe she is not wearing a bra, must be totally flat,’ Priyanka 

‘Girls’ I said.
‘Yes? Esha and Priyanka turned to me.
‘I’m   bored.   Can   you   choose   more   inclusive   conversation   topics,’   I 
pleaded. I looked for Vroom, he had collected the drinks and was waving 
manically at us for help.

‘I’ll go,’ Esha said and went over to Vroom. 
Finally, to my relief, it was only Priyanka and I.
‘So,’ she said as she leaned forward to peck at my lips. ‘You’re feeling 

left out with our girlie talk?’

‘Well, this was supposed to be a date. I forced myself to come with 

them. I haven’t caught up with you in ages.’

‘I   told   you,   Vroom   asked   me   and   I   didn’t   want   to   be   anti-social,’ 
Priyanka said as she ruffled my hair. ‘But we’ll go out for a walk in a bit. I 
want to be alone with you too, you know?’ 

‘Pleas, let’s go soon.’
‘Sure, but they’re here now,’ Priyanka said as Vroom and Esha arrived. 
Vroom passed us our drinks. We said ‘cheers’, and tried to sound lively and 
happy, as everyone in a disc always should.

‘Congrats on the website guys. I heard it’s good,’ Esha said as he took a 

‘The website is cool,’ Vroom said. ‘The test customers love it. No more 

dialing. And it’s so simple—just right for those spoon-feed-me Americans.’

‘So,   promotion   finally   coming   for   Mr   Shyam   here,’;   Priyanka   said.   I 

noticed she had finished a third of her drink in just two sips.

‘Now Mr Shyam’s promotion is another story,’ Vroom said. ‘Maybe My 

Shyam would like to tell it himself.’

sip.

‘Please man. Some other time,’ I said even as Priyanka looked at me 

expectantly.

it will take a while.’

loud with irritation.

‘Okay, well Bakshi said he is talking to Boston to release headcount. But 

‘Why can’t you just be firm with him?’ Priyanka said.
‘Like how? How can you be firm with your own boss?’ I said, my voice 

 ‘Cool it guys,’ Vroom said. ‘It’s party night and—‘ 
A big noise interrupted our conversation. We noticed a commotion on 

the dance floor as the DJ turned off the music.

‘What’s up?’ Vroom said and we all went towards the dance floor.
A fight had broken out on the floor. A gang of drunken friends had 
thought someone had pawed one of the girls with them. They accused that 
someone else and grabbed his collar. Soon, Mr Accused’s own gang came to 
his defense. As the dance floor was too noisy for vocal arguments, people 
expressed   themselves   only   with   fists   and   kicks.   The   music   stopped   when 
someone knocked one guy flat on the floor. Several others were on top of 
each other. Bouncers finally disentangled everyone and restored peace. A 
stretcher emerged to carry away the knocked-out guy.

‘Man, I wish it had gone on a bit longer,’ Vroom said.
It’s true. The only thing better than watching beautiful people in a disc 

is watching a fight. A fight means the party is totally rocking.

Five minutes later the music was back and occupying the floor again was 

the anorexic girl’s brigade.

Vroom said.

‘That is what happens to kids with rich dads and too much money,’ 

‘C’mon Vroom. I thought you said money is good. That is how we’ll beat 
the Americans, right?’ Priyanka said with the confidence that comes after 
drinking a Long Island Iced Tea in seven minutes.

‘Yes, doesn’t money pay for your mobile phones, pizzas and discos?’ I 

asked.

‘Yes, but the difference is that I’ve earned it. These rich kids, they have 
no clue how hard it is to make cash,’ Vroom said and held up his glass. ‘This 
drink is three hundred bucks—it takes me almost a full night of two hundred 
irritating Americans screaming into my ear to earn it. Then I get this drink. 
Which is full of ice-cubes anyway. These kids can’t make that comparison.’

‘Oh, I feel so guilty drinking this now, Priyanka said.
‘C’mon, you get good money. Significantly more than the eight grand 

you made as a journalist trainee,’ I said.

‘Yes,’ Vroom said as he took a big hundred-and-twenty-rupees sip. ‘We 
get paid well, fifteen thousand a month. Fuck, that is almost twelve dollars a 
day. Wow I make as much a day as a US burger boy makes in two hours. Not 
bad for my college degree. Not bad at all. Fucking nearly double of what I 
made as a journalist anyway.’ He pushed his empty glass and it slid to the 
other end of the table.

unbearable. 

hand.

said.

Everyone   was   silent   for   a   minute.   Vroom   on   his   temper   trip   is 

‘Stop being so depressed. Let’s dance,’ Esha said and tugged at Vroom’s 

‘No,’ Vroom said.
‘Come for one song,’ Esha said and stood up from her stool.
‘Okay, but if anyone teases you, I’m not getting into a fight,’ Vroom 

‘Don’t worry, no one will. There are prettier girls here,’ Esha said.
‘I don’t think so. Anyway, let’s go,’ Vroom said as they went tot eh 

dance floor. The song playing was Sharara Sharara, one of Esha’s favorites.

Priyanka and I watched them dance from our seats.
‘Want to go for a walk now?’ Priyanka said after a few minutes.
‘Sure,’ I said. We held hands and walked out of 32nd  Milestone. The 
bouncer at the door stamped our palms so that we could re-enter the disco. 
We headed to the parking lot, as the music was softer there. My ears never 
felt so nice. 

‘It’s so calm here,’ Priyanka said. ‘I don’t like it when Vroom gets all 
worked   up.   The   boy   needs   to   control   his   temper.   Top   much   unchecked 
aggression going on there.’

‘He’s young and confused. Don’t worry, life will slap him into shape. I 
think he regrets moving to Connexions sometimes. Besides, he had not taken 
his dad and mom’s separation so well.  It shows now and then.’

‘Still, he should get a grip on himself. Get a steady girlfriend maybe, 

that will help him relax.’

‘I think he likes Esha,’ I said.
‘I don’t know if Esha is interested. She’s quite focused on her modeling 

trip.’

cigarettes.

said.

head.

We   reached   our   Qualis.   I   opened   the   door   to   take   out   a   pack   of 

‘No smoking near me,’ she said and grabbed the pack from me.
‘See, maybe it is not such a good idea to have a steady girlfriend,’ I 

‘Really? So Mr Shyam is having second thoughts?’ she said, tilting her 

‘No,’ I said, and opened the Qualis again. I took out a bottle.
‘What’s that?’ she asked.
‘Some  Bacardi  we  keep handy.   It’s three hundred bucks for  a  drink 

inside, the cost of this whole bottle.

she took a sip from the bottle.

‘Cool. You guys are smart,’ Priyanka said and pulled at my cheek. Then 

‘Careful. There’s no need to get drunk just because it’s free.’
‘Trust me. There is a need when you a have a psycho parent.’
‘What happened now?’
‘Nothing. I don’t want to talk about her today. Let’s do a shot.’ The 
bottle’s lid acted as one cup, and I broke the top of a cigarette packet for the 

other. We poured Bacardi into both and warmth traveled down from my lips 
to my insides as we tossed down our first shot.

‘I’m sorry about the Bakshi comment I made inside,’ she said.
‘It’s alright. Doesn’t matter,’ I said, and wondered if we should do shot 

number two now or later.

‘I can be a bitch sometimes. But I do make it up to you. I’m a loving 

person, no?’ she said, high from mixing her drinks.

‘You’re   just   fine,’   I   said   and   looked   at   her   moist   eyes.   Her   nose 

puckered up a bit and I could have looked at it forever.

‘So, she said.
‘So what?’ I said, still hypnotized by her nose.
‘Why are you looking at me like that?’ she said and smiled.
‘Like what?’
‘The come-hither look. I see mischief in your eyes, mister,’ she said 

playfully, grabbing both my hands.

‘There is no mischief—that’s just your imagination,’ I said.
‘We’ll see,’ she said and came up close. We hugged as she kissed me on 

my neck.

‘Listen,’ she said.
‘What?’ I mumbled.
‘When was the last time we made love?’
‘Oh, don’t even ask. It’s really pathetic—over a month ago.’ 
It was true. The only place we made love was my house when it was 
empty. However, recently my mom had started staying more at home because 
of the cold. She had even given up her favorite past time of meeting relatives.

‘Have you ever made love in confined spaces?’
‘What?’ I said loudly, right into her ear.
‘Ouch!’ she said, rubbing her ear. ‘Hello? You heard me right?’
‘What are you talking about?’
‘Well, we have the time, soft music and a desolate spot.’
‘So?’
‘So, step into the Qualis, my friend,’ she said and opened the door. I 

climbed into the backseat and she followed me.

Our Qualis was parked right behind the disco, and we could hear the 
music   of   we   were   quiet.   The   song   changed   to  Mahi   Ve  from   the   movie 
Kaante.

‘I love this song,’ she said and sat astride my lap, facing me.
‘It’s a pole dancer song. You know that?’ I said.
‘yes. But I like the lyrics. Their love is true, but fate has something else 

in store.’

fingers through my hair. 

spaces?’ she said.

‘I never focus on the lyrics.’
‘You just notice the scantily clad girls in the video,’ she said and ran her 

I stayed silent.
‘So, you didn’t answer my question—have you made love in confined 

‘Priyanka, are you crazy or are you drunk?’
She unbuttoned the top few buttons of my shirt. ‘Both, Okay mister, the 
thing about confined spaces is that you have to cooperate. Now move your 
hands out of the way,’ she said.

We were quiet, apart from our breathing.
She confirmed that the windows were shut and ordered me to remove 

my shirt. She took off her kurti first, and then slowly unhooked her bra.

‘be   careful   with   your   clothes,   we’ll   need   to   find   them   quickly 

afterwards,’ she said.

‘Are you mad…’ I gasped even as I raised my arms so she could pull my 
shirt over my head. She moved to keep my shirt aside and her foot landed on 
my left baby toe.

‘Ouch!’ I screamed.
‘Oops, sorry,’ she said in a naughty-apologetic tone. As she moved her 

foot away, her head hit the roof.

‘Ouch,’ she said. ‘Sorry, this isn’t as elegant as in the Titanic movie.’
‘It’s alright. Clumsy sex is better than choreographed sex. And certainly 

better than no sex,’ I said as I pulled her close.

‘By the way, do you have a condom?’ she said.
‘Yes sir. We live in constant hope,’ I said as I pulled out my wallet.
We laughed as she embraced me. She started kissing me on my face. I 

kissed her shoulders. In a few moments, I forgot I was in the company Qualis. 

Twenty   minutes   later   we   collapsed   in   each   other’s   arms   on   the 

‘Amazing. That is simply amazing, Ms Priyanka.’ 
‘My pleasure, Sir,’ she said and winked at me. ‘Can we lie here and talk 

backseat.

for a while?’

‘Sure,’ I said, reaching for my clothes.
She cuddled me again after we had dressed.
‘Do you love me?’ she asked. Her voice was serious.
‘More than anybody else on this planet, and that includes me,’ I said, 

‘You think I’m a caring person?’ she said. Her voice told me she was 

caressing her hair.

close to tears.

‘Why do you keep asking me that?’ I said.
‘My mother was looking at our family album today. She stopped at a 
picture of me when I was three years old: I’m sitting on a tricycle and my 
mother is pushing me. She saw that picture, and you know what she said?’

‘What?’
‘She said I was so cute when I was three.’
‘You’re cute now,’ I said pressed her nose like a button.
‘And she said I was solving and caring then and that I wasn’t so loving 
anymore. She said she always wondered what had made me so heartless…’ 
Priyanka said and burst into tears.

I held her tight and felt her body shake. I thought hard about what I 
could say. Guys can never figure out what to say in such emotional moments 
and always end up saying something stupid.

‘Your mother is crazy…’
‘Don’t say anything about my mother. I love her. Can you just listen to 

me for five minutes?’ Priyanka said.

‘Of course. Sorry…’ I said as her sobs grew louder. I swore to myself to 
stay quiet for the next five minutes. I started counting my breath to pass the 
time.   Sixteen   a   minute   is   my   average;   eighty   breaths   would   mean   I   had 
listened to her for five minutes.

‘We weren’t always like this. My mom and I were best friends. Until 

class eight I think. Then as I became older, she became crazier,’ she said.

I wondered if I should point out that she had just told me not to call her 

mum crazy. However, I had promised myself I would keep quiet.

‘She   had  different   rules  for   me   and  my  brother.   And  that  began   to 
bother me. She would comment on everything I wore, everywhere I went, 
whereas my brother…she would never say anything to him. I tried to explain it 
to   her,   but   she   just   became   more   irritating,   and   by   the   time   I   reached 
college, I couldn’t wait to get away from her.’

‘Uh-uh,’ I said, calculating that almost half my time must have passed. 

My leg was cramping. When sex is over, confined spaces are a pain.

‘All through college I ignored her and did what I wanted. In fact, this 
whole don’t-care phase was born out of that. But at one level, I felt so guilty. 
I tried again to connect with her after college. But she had a problem with 
everything—my thinking, my friends, my boyfriend.’

The last word caught my attention. I had to speak, even though only 

fifty-seven breaths had passed.

‘Sorry, but did you say boyfriend?’
‘Well yeah. She knows I’m with you. And she had this thing about me 

finding someone settled.’

Settled? The words  rewound and repeated itself in my head several 
times.  What does that mean anyway? Just someone rich, or someone who 
gets predictable cash flows at the end of every month. Except parents do not 
say   it   that   way   because   then   it   really   sounds   like   they’re   trading   their 
daughter to the highest bidder. But in some ways, they are. They do not give 
a damn about love or feelings or crap like that. ‘Show me the money and keep 
our daughter for the rest of your life.’ That is the arrangement in an arranged 
marriage.

‘What are you thinking about?’ she said.
‘I’m a loser according to your mom, isn’t it?’ I said.
‘That is not what I said.’
‘Don’t you bring up Bakshi and my promotion every time we have a 

conversation/’ I said, moving away.

you can look for another job.’

‘Why do you get so defensive? Anyway, if Bakshi doesn’t promote you, 

‘I’m tired of job hunting. There is nothing good out there. And I’m tired 
of rejections. Moreover, what is the point of joining another call center? I’ll 
just have to start as a junior agent all over again—without you, without my 
friends. And let me tell you this, I may not be team leader, but I am happy I 
am content. You realize that? And tell your drama queen mom to come say it 
to my face that I am a loser. And she can send you off with whichever fucking 
settled annuity income earner she likes. I am what I am...’ I said, my face 
beetroot-red.

‘Shyam, please can you try and understand?’
‘Understand what? Your mother? No, I can’t. And you can’t either, but I 
suspect deep down you might agree with her. Like, what am I doing with this 
loser,’ I said.

‘Stop talking nonsense,’ Priyanka shouted. ‘I just made love to you for 
god’s sake. And stop using that loser word; she said and broke into tears 
again.

he said.

Two   brief   knocks   on   the   window   disturbed   our   conversation.   It   was 

Vroom; Esha was standing next to him.

‘Hello? I thought we came together. You love birds are inseparable, eh?’ 

#13

The loud ring of the landline telephone brought me back from 32nd 
Milestone. Priyanka grabbed the phone. ‘Hiiii Ganesh,’ she said, her stretched 
tone too flirty, if you ask me. But then, who the hell cares for my opinion 
anyway.

I wondered what  his  tone like. ’Get under the table. Tap the phone. 
Shyam,’   a   voice   told   me.   I   immediately   scolded   myself   for   the   horrible 
thought.

‘Of course I knew it was you. No one else calls on this emergency line,’ 
Priyanka said and ran her fingers through her hair. Women playing with their 
hair while talking to a guy is an automatic female preening gesture; I saw it 
once on Discovery Channel.

‘Yeah,’ Priyanka said after a few seconds, ‘I like cars. Which one are 

you planning to buy?...Lexus?

‘Lexus! The dude is buying a Lexus,’ Vroom screamed, loud enough for 

me to understand that this was an expensive car. 

‘Ask him which model, ask him please,’ Vroom said and Priyanka looked 

at him startled. She shook her head at Vroom.

‘Let them talk, Vroom. They’re got better things to discuss than car 

models, ’Esha said.

‘What colour? C’mon it’s your car. How can I decide for you?’ Priyanka 
said as her fingers started playing with the curled telephone wire. Over the 
next five minutes Ganesh did most of the talking, while Priyanka kept saying 
monosyllabic ‘yes’ or equivalents.

‘Tap the phone,’ the voice kept banging in my head. I hated myself for 
it, but I knew I would to do it. I wondered when Priyanka would step away 
from the desk.

‘No, no, Ganesh, it’s fine, go for your meeting. I’m here only, call me 
later,’ Priyanka said as she ended her call. I guess Mr Microsoft did have some 
work to do after all.

‘Vroom is Lexus a nice car?’ Priyanka said.
Vroom was already on the Net, surfing Lexus pictures. He turned his 
monitor to Priyanka. ‘Check this out. Lexus is one of the coolest cars. The guy 
must be loaded.’

Priyanka looked at Vroom’s screen for a few seconds and then turned to 
the girls. ‘He wants me to choose the colour. Can you believe that? I don’t 
think I should though,’ she said.

Vroom pushed himself back in his swivel chair. ‘Go for black or silver. 
Nothing is s cool as the classic colors. But I’ll check our some more for you,’ 
he said. ‘And tell him the interiors have to be dark leather.’

Meanwhile,   my   interiors   were   on   fire.   I   felt   like   throwing   up.   I 
wondered when I could tap the phone. It was totally wrong, and Priyanka and 
the rest of the girls would probably kill me if they found out. But I had to do 

it. It was masochistic, but I just had to hear that ass my ex-girlfriend away 
with the promise of expensive cars.

I tried to set the stage so I had some excuse to get beneath the table.
Why have there been no calls in the last ten minutes?’ I said. ‘I should 

check of the connections are fine.’

‘Let it be,’ Esha said. I’m enjoying the break.’
‘Yes me too,’ Radhika said. ‘And the connection is okay. Bangalore is 

just over-eager and picking up all the calls.’

‘Bio?’  Priyanka  said  to  Esha it  was their  code   word to  go   the  toilet 

together for a private conversation.

‘Sure.’ Esha sensed the need for gossip and got up from her chair.
‘I’ll come too,’ Radhika said and stood up. She turned to me: ‘The girls 

want a bio break, team leader.’

‘You’re  all  going?’   I   said,   pretending   to   be   reluctant,   but   secretly 
thrilled. This was my chance. ‘Well, okay, since nothing much is happening 
right now.’

As soon as the girls were out of sight I dived under the table 

‘What are you doing?’ Vroom said.
‘Nothing. I don’t think the connections are firm,’ I said.
‘And what the hell do you know about the connections,’ Vroom said. He 

bent down to look under the table. ‘Tell me honestly what you’re doing.’

I   told   him   about   my   uncontrollable   urge   to   tap   the   phone.   Vroom 
scolded me for five seconds, but then got excited by the challenge and joined 
me under the table.

‘I can’t believe I’m helping you with this. The girls will kill us if they 

find out,’ Vroom said.

almost done.’

‘They won’t have a clue,’ I said, and connected the wires. ‘Look, it’s 

Vroom picked up the landline and we tested the arrangement. I could 
select an option on my computer and listen in on the landline via my headset. 
Mr Microsoft was in the bag.

‘Why are you doing this?’ Vroom said.
‘I don’t know. Don’t ask me that.’
‘And why are the girls talking so long?’
‘You know them, they have their girl talk in the toilet.’
‘And   you   don’t   want   to   hear   what   they’re   saying?   I’m   sure   they’re 

discussing Mr Microsoft there.’

would we be able to eavesdrop?’

‘Oh no,’ I said, worried about what I could be missing. ‘Although how 

‘From the corner stall of the men’s toilet,’ Vroom said. ‘it shares a wall 
with the girl’s toilet. If you press your ear hard against the wall, you can hear 
them.’

‘Really?’ I said, my eyes lighting up.
Vroom nodded.

‘It’ll be wrong though, eavesdropping through a stall,’ I said.
‘Yes it will.’
‘But who cares. Let’s go,’ I said and Vroom and I jumped off our chairs.

Vroom and I squeezed in and bolted the door in the corner stall of the 
WASG   men’s   toilet.   We   pressed   our   ears   against   the   wall.   I   could   hear 
Radhika’s voice.

‘Yes, he sounds like a really nice guy,’ she was saying.
‘But   I   shouldn’t   tell   him   the   color,   no?’   it’s   his   car   and   it   is   so 

expensive. But you know what he said>’ Priyanka said.

‘What? Radhika said.
‘He said “no, it is our car”, and then he said “you have brought colour 

to my life, so you get to choose the color”.’
‘Oh, he sounds so romantic,’ Esha said.
‘That is such a lame loser line. Color of my life, my ass,’ I said to Vroom.
‘Shh. They’ll hear us, stupid. Keep quiet,’ Vroom said and put his hand 

on my mouth.

‘Anyway,   how’s   Anuj?’   Priyanka   said.   I   could   hear   the   jingle   of  her 

bangles. She was probably brushing her hair.

‘Anuj is fine,’ Radhika said. ‘He is at a dealer conference in Kolkata. I 
think he has to be up late as some dealers can’t seem to have enough to 
drink.’

‘Sales   jobs   are   tough,’   Esha   said.   ‘Okay,   excuse   me,   but   I   have   to 

change this…ouch!’

‘What’s happening?’ I said
Vroom shrugged his shoulders.
‘Esha,   your   wound   has   not   healed   for   days.   Just   a   band-aid   is   not 
enough,’ Priyanka said. I guessed Esha was changing the band-aid on her shin.

‘No, I’m fine. As long as it heals before the Lakme fashion week,’ Esha 

said.

boys will grumble.’

Esha said.

‘Let’s go back girls, it is almost 1:00 a.m.,’ Radhika said. ‘Otherwise the 

‘The boys always grumble. Like they never have their cigarette breaks,’ 

‘But today they are extra grumbly. At least someone is,’ Radhika said.
Vroom pointed a finger at me. Yes, the girls were talking about me.
I grumbled in lip sync.
‘You think Shyam is not taking the news well?’ Priyanka said her voice 

becoming fainter as they walked towards the toilet’s exit.

‘You tell us. You know him better than we do,’ Esha said. 
‘I wish I knew him now. I don’t know why he sulks and acts so childish 

sometimes,’ Priyanka said as they left the toilet.

‘Childish? Me? I am childish?’ I said to Vroom, jumping up and down in 
the stall. ‘What the hell. Mr Microsoft gives these cheesy lines and he is cute 
and romantic. I say nothing and I am childish,’ I banged a fist on the stall door.

‘Shyam, don’t behave like a kid,’ Vroom said.
We came out of the stall. I jumped back a step as I saw Bakshi by the 

Through   the   mirror,   Bakshi   saw   both   of   us.   His   jaw   dropped   as   he 

sink

turned towards us.

‘Hello Sir,’ Vroom said and went up to the sink next to him.
‘Sir, it is not what you think…’I said, pointing back at the stall.
‘I am not thinking anything. What you do in your personal lives is up to 

you. But why aren’t you at the desk?’ Bakshi said.

‘Sir, we just took a short break. Call traffic is very low today,’ I said.
‘Did you log your break? The girls are missing from the bay as well,’ 

Bakshi said. His face was turning from a shiny pink to a shiny red.

‘Really? Where did the girls go/’ Vroom said.
Bakshi turned away from us and walked to the urinal stalls. I went to the 

stall adjacent to him.

‘Didn’t you just use the toilet?’ Bakshi said.
‘Sir,’ I said and hesitated. ‘Sir, that was different, with Vroom.’ 
‘Please. I don’t want to know,’ Bakshi said.
‘Sir, no,’ I said.
Now this is something women never have to deal with; standing next to 
your   boss   in   the   toilet   as   he   pees   is   one   of   the   world’s   most   awkward 
situations.   What   are   you   supposed   to   do?   Leave   him   alone   or   give   him 
company and entertain him? Is it okay to talk to him while he is doing his 
business or not?

‘Sir, how come you are using this restroom?’ I said, as I had not seen 

him there before.

‘Didn’t   mean   to.   I   always   use   the   executive   toilet,’   Bakshi   said, 

emphasizing his superior position to me.

‘Yes   sir,’   I   said   and   nodded   my   head.   I   had   acknowledge   his 

magnanimous gesture of peeing in the same bay as us. But why was he here?

‘Anyway, I came to your desk to drop off a courier for Esha.’ 
‘Courier/’ Vroom said from his position at the sink. ‘At this time?’
‘I’ve kept the parcel on her desk. Just tell her,’ Bakshi said as he zipped 

‘Also, Shyam, can you tell the voice agents to come to my office for a 

team meeting later, say 2:30 a.m., okay/’ Bakshi said.

‘What’s up sir?’ Vroom said.’
‘Nothing. I want to share some pertinent insights with the resources. 
Anyway, can I ask you a couple of questions on the website? You know it well, 
right?’

‘Yes sir. And most questions will be answered in the FAQ section of the 

up.

user manual we sent you,’ Vroom said.

‘FAQ?
‘Frequently asked questions.’

change the queries to suit the model,’ Vroom said.

Bakshi asked us a few more questions. They were simple enough for 
Vroom or me to answer them. Especially as we had built the website from 
scratch. 

‘Good, good. I am impressed by your knowledge. Anyway, thanks for the 
user manual, I have already sent it to Boston,’ Bakshi said and shook his hands 
dry. I moved away to avoid any droplets failing on me.

‘You did/’ both of us said in unison.
‘Sir, if you could have copied us on the email…we would like to be in 

the loop,’ Vroom said. Good one, he was using Bakshi’s phrases back at him.

‘Oh, I didn’t? I am so sorry. I am not good with emails anyway. I’ll just 

forward it to you. But you guys man the bay now, okay?’

‘Good. Boston may have some questions. I will rely on you smart people 
to answer them. For instance, how do you update the site for new computer 
models?’

‘It’s easy, Sir. Any systems person can modify the website backend and 

‘Of course, Sir,’ I said.
‘And have you finished the ad-hoc task I gave you,’ Bakshi said.
‘What, Sir?’ I said, and then realized he meant the photocopying of the 

board meeting invite. ‘Almost done, Sir. I will send it to you.’

Bakshi  nodded  and  left  us behind  in  the  restroom.  I  felt  weird  that 
Bakshi  had  not  copied  us on  the  email  sending  out  the   website  proposal. 
However, it did not surprise me.

‘Is he a total moron or what? Can’t cc people on an email?’ Vroom said.
‘Easy man. Let’s get back to the bay,’ I said.

#14

We returned from the men’s room. Call flow had resumed at the WASG. 
Radhika   explained   to   a   caller   how   to   open   his   vacuum   cleaner.   Priyanka 
advised a lady not to put hot pans in the dishwasher. Esha taught an old man 
to pre-heat an oven and simultaneously dodged his telephonic ‘your-voice-is-
so-sexy’ pass.

Another call flashed on my screen.
‘I know this guy. Can I take this call?’ Vroom said.
‘Who is it?’ I raised my eyebrows.
‘A prick called William Fox. Listen in if you want,’ Vroom said.
I selected the option on my computer.
‘Good afternoon, Western Appliances, Victor speaking. Ho may I help 

you today, Mr Fox,’ Vroom said.

‘You bloody well help me smart ass,’ the man on the phone said. He had 
a rough voice, with a heavy southern American accent; he sounded like he 
was in his mid-thirties. I could guess he was drunk.

‘Who is he,’ I whispered, but Vroom shushed me.
‘Sir, if I may confirm, I am speaking to Mr William Fox?’
‘You bet you are. You think just ‘cos you know my name it’s okay to sell 

‘What is the problem with your vacuum cleaner, Sir? It’s a VX-100?’
‘’Sir, do you remember when you last changed the dust bags?’ Vroom 

me crap hoovers?’

said.

‘Like fuck I remember when you last changed the dust bags. It’s just a 

crap machine you dumbass.’

Vroom took three deep breaths. He remembered the suggested line in 

such a situation. ‘Sir, I request you to not use that language.’

‘Oh really? Then make your fucking hoover work.’
Vroom pressed a button on his phone before he spoke again.
‘Fuck you first you sonofabitch prickhead…’ he said.
‘What are you doing?’ I said, panicking.
‘Just   venting,   don’t   worry   it   is   on   mute,’   Vroom   smirked.   ‘Back   to 
normal now.’ He pressed the button again and, trying his best to keep his 
tone calm, said, Sir, you need to change the dust bags when they are full.’

‘Who am I speaking to?’ the voice on the phone became agitated.
‘Victor, sir.’
‘Tell me your fucking name. You’re some kid in India, isn’t it?’
‘Sir, I am afraid I can’t disclose my location.’
‘You’re from India. Tell m, boy.’
‘Yes sir. I am in India,’ Vroom gave in.
‘So what did you have to do to get this job? Fucking degree in nuclear 

physics?’

‘Sir, do you need help with your cleaner or not?’ Vroom said. 

‘C’mon son, answer me. I don’t need your help. Yeah, I’ll change the 

dust bag. What about you guys? When will you change your dusty country?’
‘Excuse me, sir, but I want you to stop talking like that,’ Vroom said.
‘Oh really, now some brown kid will tell me what to do— William Fox’s 

voice stopped abruptly as I cut off the call.

Vroom didn’t move for a few seconds. His whole body trembled and he 
was breathing heavily. Then he placed his elbows on the table and covered his 
face with his hands.

‘You   don’t   have   to   talk   to   those   people.   You   know   that,’   I   said   to 

Vroom.

The girls glanced at us while still on their calls.
‘Vroom, I’m talking to you,’ I said.
He raised his face and slowly turned to loot at me. Then he banged a fist 

on the table. ‘Damn,’ he screamed and kicked hard under the table.

‘What the...’ Priyanka said. ‘Mt call just got cut.’
Vroom’s kick had dislodged the power wires, disconnecting all our calls. 
I wanted to check the wires, but had to check on Vroom first. Vroom stood up 
and his six-foot-plus frame towered above us.

‘Guys, there are two things I cannot stand,’ he said and showed us two 

fingers. ‘Racists. And Americans.’

Priyanka started laughing.
‘What is there to laugh?’ I said.
‘because there is a contradiction. Doesn’t like racists, but can’t stand 

Americans,’ Priyanka said.

‘Why?’ Vroom said, ignoring Priyanka. ‘Why do some fat-ass, dim-witted 

Americans get to act superior to us? Do you know why?’ 

‘Nobody answered.
Vroom continued, ‘I’ll tell you why. Not because they are smarter. Not 
because they are better people. But because their country is rich and ours is 
poor. That is the only damn reason. Because is rich and ours is poor. That is 
the only damn reason. Because the losers who have run our country for the 
last   fifty   years   couldn’t   do   better   than   make   India   one   of   the   poorest 
countries on earth. Great job, thank you, dear great fucking leaders.’ 

‘Stop overreacting Vroom. Some stupid guy calls and…’ Radhika said.
‘Screw Americans,’ I said and gave him a bottle of water. ‘Look, you’ve 

broken down the entire system.’ I pointed to the black call screens.

‘Someone kicked the Americans a bit too hard. No more calls for now,’ 

Priyanka said, rolling her eyes.

‘Let   me   take   a   look,’   I   said   and   went   under   the   table.   I  was  more 
worried about the wires tapping the emergency phone. However, they were 
intact.

‘Shyam, wait,’ Esha said ‘w have a great excuse for not taking calls. Let 

Everyone   agreed   with  her.   We   decided   to   call   systems   after   twenty 

it be for a while.’

minutes.

‘Why was Bakshi here? I saw him come out of the men’s toilet,’ Priyanka 

said.

time?’

‘To deliver a courier for Esha,’ I said. ‘And he said there is a team 

meeting at 2:30 a.m. Oh man, I still have to Xerox the board meeting invite.’

I assembled Bakshi’s sheets again.
‘What courier,’ Esha said. ‘This?’
She lifted a brown packet that was lying near her computer.
‘Must   be,’   Vroom   said,   ‘though   which   courier   delivers   stuff   at   this 

Esha opened the packet. She took out two bundles of hundred rupee 
notes. One bundle had a small yellow post-it note on it. She read the post-it 
and her face went pale.

‘Wow, someone’s rich,’ Vroom said.
‘Not bad. What’s the money for?’ Radhika said.
‘It’s nothing. Just a friend returning money she borrowed from me,’ 

Esha said.

She dumped the packet in her drawer and took out her mobile phone. 
Her face was pensive, as if she was debating whether or not to make a call. I 
collected my sheets to go to the Xerox room.

‘Want to help?’ I called out to Vroom.
‘No thanks. People I worked with are becoming national TV reporters, 
but look at me. Taking calls from losers and being asked to help with loser 
jobs,’ Vroom said and looked away from me.

#15

I switched on the Xerox machine in the supplies room and put Bakshi’s 
stack in the document feeder. I had just pressed the ‘start’ button on the 
agenda document when the copier creaked and groaned to a halt. ‘Paper Jam: 
Tray 2’ appeared in big, bold letters on the screen.

The copier in our supplies room is not a machine. It is a person. A 
person with a psychotic soul and a grumpy attitude towards life. Whenever 
you copy more than two sheets, there is paper jam. After that, the machine 
teases you: it gives you systematic instructions on how to un-jam it—open 
cover, remove tray, pull lever. Now if it knows this much, why doesn’t it fix 
itself?

‘Damn,’ I mumbled to myself as I bent down to open the paper trays. I 

turned a few levers, and pulled out whatever paper was in sight.

I stood up and rearranged the documents on the feeder tray. I pressed 
‘start’   again,   not   realizing   that   my   ID   was   resting   on   Bakshi’s   original 
document.   as   the   machine   re-started,   it   sucked   in   the   ID   along   with   the 
paper. The ID pulled at my strap, which tightened around my neck.

‘Aaarg,’ I said as I chocked. The ID went inside the machine’s guts, and 
the strap curled tighter around my neck. I screamed loudly and pulled at my 
ID. However, the machine had more strength. I was sure it wanted to kill me—
and probably making a copy of my ID for my obituary while it was as it. I 
started kicking the machine hard.

Vroom   came   running   into   the   room.   ‘What   the…’   he   appeared 
nonplussed. He saw A4 sheets spread all over the room, a groaning Xerox 
machine, and me lying down on top of the photocopiers, desperately tugging 
at my strap.

‘Do something,‘ I said in a muffled voice.
‘Like what?’ he said and bent over to look at the machine. The screen 
was flashing the poetic words ‘Paper Jam’. My ID strap ran right into the 
machine.

Vroom looked around the supplies room and found a pair of scissors.
‘Should I?’ he said and smiled at me. ‘I really want the others to see 

‘Shut…up…and…cut,’ I said.
Snap! In one snap, my breath came back.
‘Okay now?’ Vroom asked as he threw the scissors back in the supplies 

this.’

tray.

I nodded as I rubbed my neck and took wheezing breaths. I rested my 
head down on the warm, soothing glass of the photocopy machine. I must 
have rested it too hard, or maybe my head is too heavy. I heard a crack.

‘Fuck,’ Vroom said, ‘you broke the glass.’
‘What?’ I said as I lifted my head.
‘Get off,’ Vroom said and pulled me off the machine. ‘What is with you 

man?’ having a bad office supplies day?’

‘Who knows?’ I said, collecting Bakshi’s document. ‘I really am good for 
nothing. Cannot even do these loser jobs. I almost died. Can you imagine the 
headline—“Copied decapitates man, duplicates document”.’

Vroom laughed and put his arm around my shoulder.
‘Don’t take tension dude. And I apologize.’
‘For what,’ I said. Nobody has ever apologized to me in the past twenty-

six years of my life.

‘I’m sorry I was rude and didn’t come and help you. First these rumors 
about the call center closing down. Then Boontoo makes it to NDTV. And 
Bakshi   sends   the   document   without   copying   us.   Meanwhile,   some   psycho 
caller screams curses at me. Just gets to you sometimes.’

‘What gets to you?’ I asked. I was trying t copy Bakshi’s document again, 
but the Xerox machine was hurling abusive message on the screen every time 
I pressed a button. Soon it self-detected a crack in the glass and switched 
itself off. I think a committed suicide.

‘Life,’ Vroom said, sitting down on one of the stools in the supplies 
room, ‘life gets to you. You think you are perfectly happy—you know, good 
salary, nice friends, life is a party—but all of a sudden, in one little snap, 
everything can crack, like this stupid glass pane of the Xerox machine.’

I did not fully understand Vroom’s glass pane theory of life, but his face 
told me he was upset. I decided to soothe the man who had just saved my life.

‘Vroom, you know what your problem is?’
‘What?’
‘You don’t have real love in your life. You need to fall in love, be in love 
and stay in love. That is the gap you are facing,’ I said firmly, as if I really 
knew what I was talking about.

‘You think so?’ Vroom said. ‘I’ve had girlfriends. I’ll make another one 

soon—you know that.’

‘Not those kind of girls. Someone you really care about. And I think we 

all know who that is.’
‘Esha?’ he said.
I kept quiet.
‘Esha is not interested. I have asked her. She has her modeling and says 
she has no time for a relationship. Besides, she has other issues with me,’ 
Vroom said.

‘What issues?’ I said.
‘She says I don’t know what love is. I care for cars and bikes more than 

I laughed. ‘You do.’
‘That is such an unfair comparison. It’s like asking women that they care 

for more, nice shoes or men. There is no easy answer.’

‘Really? So we are benchmarked to footwear?’
‘Trust me, women can ignore men for sexy shoes. But come to the point

girls.’

—Esha.’

‘Do you think you love her?’ I said.
‘Can’t say. But I’ve felt something for her over a year now.’

‘But you dated other girls last year.’
‘Those girls were never important. They were like TV channels you surf 
while looking for the real program you want to see. You are with that Curly 
Wurly chick, and you still have feelings for Priyanka,’ Vroom said.

The statement startled me.
‘Shefali is there to help me move on,’ I said.
‘Screw moving on. That chick can put you off women forever. Maybe 

that will help you get over Priyanka,’ Vroom said.

‘Don’t change the topic. We’re talking about you. I think you should ask 

The dinning room made sense. I could be nearby, but inconspicuous. 

Esha again for a real relationship. Do it man.’

Vroom looked at me for a few seconds. ‘Will you help me?’ he said.
‘Me? You’re the expert with girls,’ I said.
‘This one is different. The stakes are higher. Can you be around when I 

talk to her? Just listen to our conversation. Maybe we can analyze it later.’

‘Okay, sure. So, let’s do it now.’
‘Now?’
‘Why not? We have free time. Afterwards calls will, begin and we’ll be 
busy again. Worst case, management may fire us. Better act fast right?’ I said.
‘Okay.   Where   do   we   do   it?’   Vroom   said   as   he   put   his   hand   on   his 

forehead to think. ‘The dining room?’

#16

‘Everything okay? I heard noises,’ Esha said, as we returned from the 
supplies room. She stretched back on her chair. Her top slid up and the navel 
ring twinkled.

‘The Xerox machine died. Anyway, anyone for a snack?’ I said.
‘Yes, let’s go. I need a walk. Come, Priyanka,’ Esha said and tried to pull 

Priyanka up by her upper arm.

‘No, I’ll stay here,’ Priyanka said and smiled. ‘Ganesh might call.’
A scoop of hot molten lead entered through my head and left my toes. 
Try to move on, I reminded myself. At the same time, I had the urge to pick 
up that landline and smash it to fifty pieces.

Radhika was about to get up when I stopped her.
‘Actually Radhika, can you stay back? If Bakshi walks by, at least he’ll 

see some people on the desk,’ I said.

Radhika sat back puzzled as we left the room.
The dining area 
The dinning area at Connexions is a cross between a restaurant and a 
college hostel mess. There are three rows of long granite-covered tables, with 
seating   on   both   sides.   The   chairs   are   plush;   they’re   upholstered   in   black 
leather in an attempt to give them a hip designer look. The tables have a 
small vase every three feet. Management recently renovated the place when 
some overpriced consulting l of MBAs) recommended that a bright dining room 
would be good for employee motivation. A much cheaper option would have 
just been to fire. Bakshi, if you ask me.

Vroom took a cheese sandwich and chips (we don’t serve Indian food—
again for motivation reasons) in his tray and sat at one of the tables. Esha just 
tool soda water and sat opposite Vroom. I think slice of eats once every three 
days. I took an unhealthy sized slice of chocolate cake. I shouldn’t have, but 
justified it as a well-deserved reward for helping a friend.

I sat at the adjacent table, took out my phone, and started typing fake 

‘Why isn’t Shyam sitting with us?’ Esha said t Vroom, twisting on her 

SMS messages.

seat to look at me.

‘Private SMSing,’ Vroom said. Esha rolled her eyes and nodded.
‘Actually Esha, I wanted to tell you something,’ Vroom said, fingering 
the chips on his plate. I had already finished half my cake. I was probably a 
pig with a reverse eating disorder in my previous life.

‘Yeah/’ Esha said to Vroom, dragging the word as an eyebrow rose in 
suspicion. The invisible female antennae were out and suggesting caution. 
‘Talk about what?’

‘Esha,’ Vroom said, clearing his throat. ‘I’ve been thinking about you a 

lot lately.’

‘Really?’ she said and looked sideways to see if I was eavesdropping. Of 
course I was, but I made an extra effort to display a facial expression that 

showed I was really focusing on my cake. She watched as I joyfully consumed 
what was probably her weekly calorific consumption in a few seconds.

‘Yes really, Esha. I may have met a lot of girls, but no one is like you.’
She giggled and, taking a flower out from the vase, began plucking out 

its petals.

‘Yes,’ Vroom continued, ‘and I think rather than fool around, could do 

with a real relationship. So, I’m asking you again—will you go out with me?’

Esha was quiet for a few minutes. ‘What do you expect me to say?’
‘I don’t know. How about a yes?’
‘Really/ well unfortunately that word did not occur to me,’ Esha said, 

her expression serious.

‘Why?’ Vroom said. I could tell he though it was over already. He had 
told me once, if a girl hints she is not interested, it’s time to cut losses and 
quit. Never try the persuasion game.

‘I’ve told you before. I have to focus on my modeling career. I can’t 

afford the luxury of making a boyfriend,’ she said, her voice unusually cold.

‘What  is with you, Esha? Don’t  you  want someone  to support you…’ 

Vroom said.

‘that’s right, with three different girlfriends last year, I am sure you will 

always be there for me,’ Esha said.

‘The other girls were just for fun. They meant nothing, they’re like 
pizza   or   movies   or   something.   They   are   channel   surfing,   you   are   more 
serious,’ Vroom said.

‘So what serious channel am I? The BCC?’ Esha said.
‘I have known you for more than a year. We have spent hundreds of 

I   though   Vroom’s   last   phrase   came   out   odd,   but   Esha   was   too 

nights together…’

preoccupied to notice.

‘Just drop it, Vroom,’ Esha said put the flowers back in the vase. Her 

voice was breaking, though she was not crying yet.

‘Are you okay?’ Vroom said and extended his hand to hold hers. She 
sensed the move and pulled her hand away nanoseconds before he reached it.

‘Not really,’ Esha said.
‘I thought we were friends. I just wanted to take it to the next level…’ 

Vroom said.

‘Please stop it,’ Esha said, and covered her eyes with her hands. ‘You 

chose the worst time to talk about this.’

‘What’s wrong Esha? Can I help?’ Vroom said, his voice now held more 

concern than the nervousness of romance.

She shook her head frantically.
I knew Vroom had failed miserably. This girl was not interested and was 
in a strange mood tonight anyway. I finished my thousand-calorie chocolate 
cake, and went to the counter to get water. By the time I returned, they had 
left the dining room.

#17

‘What sleeping? No one has slept a wink today,’ her mother said in an 
excited voice. I had never met her. However, through Priyanka’s stories, I felt 
I knew her intimately.

The tapped line had exceptional clarity. Her mother sounded elated, 
which was unusual for a woman who (according to Priyanka) had spent most 
of life in self-imposed, obsessive-compulsive depression.

Priyanka’s mother explained how Ganesh had just called her and given 
her the emergency line number. Ganesh’s family in India had also not slept; 
they had been calling Priyanka’s parents at least once an hour. Ganesh had 
told Priyanka’s family that he was ‘on top of the world’. I guess the sad dude 
really had no other life.

‘I am so happy today. Look how God sent such a perfect match right to 

our door. And I used to worry about you so much,’ Priyanka’s mother said.

That’s great mom, but what’s up?’ Priyanka said. I’ll be home in a few 

hours. How come you called her?’

‘Just like that. Can’t a mother call her daughter?’ Priyanka’s mom said. 

‘Can’t a mother’ is one of her classic lines.

‘No mom, I just wondered. Anyway, Ganesh and I spoke a few times 

today.’

I returned to the WASG bay with the taste of chocolate cake lingering in 
my   mouth.   I   sat   down   at   my   desk   and   began   surfing   irrelevant   website. 
Radhika was giving Priyanka recommendation on the best shops in Delhi for 
bridal dresses. Esha and Vroom were silent. My guilt for eating the chocolate 
cake combined with my guilt for not reporting the systems failure. When guilt 
combines, it multiplies manifold. I finally called IT to fix our desk. They were 
busy, but promised to come in ten minutes.

The spare landline’s ring startled us all.
‘Ganesh,’ Priyanka said as she scrambled to pick up the phone. I kept a 

calm face while I selected the option to listen in on the call.

‘Mom,’   Priyanka   said,   ‘why   aren’t   you   sleeping?   Who   gave   you   this 

number?’

‘And?’
‘And what?’
‘Did he tell you his plans?’
‘What plans/’
‘He is coming to India next month. Originally he’d planned the trip so he 
could see girls. But now that he has made his choice, he wants to get married 
on   that   trip,’   Priyanka’s   mom   said,   her   voice   turning   breathless   with 
excitement.

‘What?’ Priyanka said, ‘next month/’ and looked around a all of us with 
a shocked expression. Everyone returned puzzled looks, as they did not know 
what was going on. Of course, I also pretended to look confused.

‘Mom, no!’ Priyanka wailed. ‘How can I get married next month? That is 

less than five weeks.’

‘Oh   you   don’t   have   to   worry   about   that.   I   am   there   to   organize 
everything. You wait and see, I will work day and night to make it a grand 
event.’

‘Mom I’m not worried about organizing a party. I have so be ready to get 
married.   I   hardly   know   Ganesh,’   Priyanka   said,   entwining   her   fingers 
nervously in the telephone wire.

‘Huh?’ Of course, you are ready for it. When the families have fixed the 
match, bride and groom are happy, why delay? And the boy can’t come again 
and again. He is in an important position after all.’

Yeah right, I thought. He was probably one of the thousands of Indian 
geeks coding away  in Microsoft.  $But to his in-laws,  he was Mr Bill Gates 
himself.

‘Mom, please. I cannot do it next month. Sorry—but no,’ Priyanka said, 

‘and I have to keep the phone down now.’

‘What do you mean no? This is too much. You have to disagree with me 

Ganesh right?’

always or what/’

‘Mom, how does this have anything to do with disagreeing with you?’ in 
fact, how does it have anything to do with you? It is my life, and sorry, I can’t 
marry anyone I have only known for five weeks.’

Priyanka’s   mother   stayed   silent   for   a   while.   I   thought   she   would 
retaliate, but then I figured out: this silence was working more effectively 
than   words.   She   knows   how   to   put   an   emotional   stasher   knife   tight   at 
Priyanka’s neck.

‘Mom, are you there?’ Priyanka asked after ten seconds.
‘Yes, I am still here. Will be dead soon, but unfortunately still here.’
‘Mom c’mon now…’
‘Don’t even make me happy by mistake,’ Priyanka’s mother said. What 

a killer line, I thought. I almost applauded. 

Priyanka threw a hand up in the air in exasperation. She grabbed a 
stress ball lying near Vroom’s computer across the table and squeezed it hard. 
I tugged the headset closer to my ear as Priyanka’s voice turned softer.

‘Mom, please. Don’t do this.’
‘You   know   I   prayed   for   one   hour   today…praying   you   stay   happy…
forever,’   Priyanka’s   mother   said   as   she   broke   into   tears.   Whoever   starts 
crying first always has an advantage in an argument. This works for Priyanka’s 
mother, who at least has obedient tear glands, if not an obedient daughter.

‘Mom, don’t create a scene. I’m at work. What do you want from me/ I 

have agreed to the boy. Now why is everyone pushing me?’

‘Isn’t Ganesh nice? What is the problem?’ her mother said in a tragic 

tone that could put any Bollywood hero’s mother to shame.

‘Mom, I didn’t say he isn’t nice or there is a problem. I just need time.
‘You aren’t distracted, are you? Are you still talking to that useless call 

center chap, what is his name…Shyam.’
I jumped when I heard my name.
‘No mom. That is over. I have told you so many times I have agreed to 

‘So,   why  can’t   you   agree  for  next   month—for   everyone’s  happiness? 

Can’t a mother beg her daughter for this?’

There you go: ‘can’t a mother…’ number II for the night.
Priyanka closed her eyes to compose herself. She spoke slowly, ‘Can I 

‘Of course. Think about it. But think for all of us. Not just yourself.’
‘Okay. I will. Just… just give me some time.’
Priyanka   hung   up   the   phone   and   kept   still.   The   girls   asked   her   for 

think about it?’

details.

She looked around and threw the stress ball at her monitor.
‘Can you believe this? She wants me to get married next month. Next 
month!’ Priyanka said and stood up. ‘They brought me up for twenty-five 
years, and they can’t wait more than twenty-five days to get rid of me. What 
is with these people—am I such a burden?’

Priyanka   repeated   her   conversation   to   Esha   and   Radhika.   Vroom 

checked his computer to see if Bakshi had sent us any emails.

‘It doesn’t matter right? You have to marry him anyway. Why drag it 

out?’ Radhika said to Priyanka.

‘Yes,   you   get   to   drive   the   Lexus   sooner   too,’   Vroom   said,   without 
looking up from his screen. Screw Vroom. I gave him a firm glare out of the 
corner of my eye.

‘What will I wear?’ Esha said. Her somber mood had lightened with the 
new announcement. Give her a chance to dress up and she will ignore people 
dying around her. ‘This is too short a notice,’ she continued, ‘ I need a new 
dress for every ceremony.’

‘Get your  designer friends  to lend you a few dresses,’ Vroom said to 

Esha, with a hint of sarcasm in his voice.

Esha’s face dropped again. Only I saw it, but her eyes became wet. She 
took a tissue from her purse. She pretended to fix her lipstick and casually 
wiped her tears.

‘I’m so not ready for this. In one month I’ll be someone’s wife. Gosh, 

little kids will call me auntie,’ Priyanka said.

Everyone discussed the pros and cons of Priyanka getting married in 
four weeks. Most of them felt getting married so quickly wasn’t such a big 
deal once she had chosen the guy. Of course, most people don’t give a damn 
about me as well.

In the midst of the discussion the systems guy returned to our desk.
‘What   happened   here?’   he   said   from   under   the   table.   ‘Looks   like 

someone ripped these wires apart.’

‘I don’t know,’ I said. ‘See if we can get some traffic again.’
Priyanka’s   mother   and   her   words—‘the   useless   call   center   boy’—
resounded in my mind. I remembered the time when Priyanka told me her 
mother’s views on me. It was not long ago: it was one of our last dates at 
Mocha Café.

#18
My Past Dates with 
Priyanka—IV

Mocha Café, Greater Kailash I
Five months before this night

We promised to meet on one condition—we would not fight. No brain 
games,   no   sarcastic   comments   and   no   judgmental   remarks.   She   was   late 
again. I fiddled with the menu as I looked around me. Mocha’s décor had a 
Middle Eastern twist, with hookahs, velvet cushions and colored glass lamps 
everywhere.   Many   of   the   tables   were   occupied   by   couples,   sitting   with 
intertwined fingers, obviously deeply in love. The girls laughed at whatever 
the guys said. The guys ordered the most expensive items on the menu. Every 
now   and   then   their   eyes   needed   to   be   happy   was   each   other.   The   silly 
delusion in the initial stage of a relationship: aren’t they amazing? 

My life was nowhere near perfect, of course. For starters, my girlfriend, 
if I could still call her that, was late. Plus, I could sense she was itching to 
dump me. Priyanka and I had ended eight of our last ten calls with someone 
hanging up the phone on the other.

I had not slept the entire day, which is not a big deal for most people, 
but considering I work all night, it had no left me feeling too good. My job was 
going nowhere, with Bakshi  bent on sucking every last  drop of my blood. 
Maybe he was right—I just did not have the strategic vision or managerial 
leadership or whatever crap things you are supposed to have to do well in 
life.   Maybe   Priyanka’s   mom  was  right   too—her  daughter   was  stuck  with  a 
loser.

These   thoughts   enveloped   me   as   she   came   in.   She   had   just   had   a 
haircut. Her waist-length hair was now just a few inches below her shoulders. 
I liked her with long hair, but she never listened to me. I told you, I didn’t 
have the leadership skills to influence anyone. Anyway, her hair still looked 
nice. She wore a white linen top and a flowing lavender skirt with lost of 
crinkly   edges.   She   had  on  a  thin   silver   necklace,   with  the  world’s   tiniest 
diamond pendant handing from it. I started at my watch as a sign of protest.

‘Sorry, Shyam,’ she said as she put a giant brown bag on the table, ‘that 

ass hairdresser took so long. I told him I had to leave early.’

‘No   big   deal.   A   haircut   has   to   be   more   important   than   me,’   I   said, 

without any emotion in my voice.

‘I thought we said no sarcasm,’ she said, ‘and I did say sorry.’
‘That’s right. Once sorry for half an hour seems fair, in fact, go get a 

two-hour facial done as well. You can come back and say sorry four times.’

‘Shyam, please. I know I’m late. We promised not to fight. Saturday is 

the only day I get time for a haircut.’

‘I told you to keep your hair long,’ I said.
‘I did for a long time. But it’s sop hard to maintain it, Shyam. I’m sorry, 
but you need to understand sometimes. I had the most boring hair in the 
world and I could do nothing with it. And it took one hour to oil the damn 
thing. And it feels so hot in the Delhi heat.’

‘Whatever,’ I said in a bored voice, looking at the menu. ‘What do you 

‘I want my Shyam to be in a good moon,’ she said and held my hand. We 

didn’t intertwine fingers though.

‘My’ Shyam. I guess I still count, I thought. Girls sure know how to sweet 

want?’

talk.

‘Hmm…’ I said and let out a big sigh. If she was trying to make peace, I 

guess I had to do my bit. ‘We can have their special Maggi noodles.’

‘Maggi? You’ve come all this way to eat Maggi?’ she said, and took the 
menu from me. ‘And check this out: ninety bucks for Maggi?’ she said the last 
phrase so loudly that the tables and a few waiters next to us heard us.

‘Priyanka, we earn now. We can afford it,’ I said.
‘Order chocolate brownies and ice cream,’ she said. ‘At least something 

you don’t get at home.’

‘I thought you said you’ll have whatever I want,’ I said.
‘Yes,   but   Maggi?’   she   said   and   made   a   quirky   face.   Her   nostrils 
contracted for a second. I had seen that face before, and I could not help but 
smile. I saved myself time by ordering the brownie.

The   waiter   brought   the   chocolate   brownie   and   placed   it   in   front   of 
Priyanka. Half a liter of chocolate sauce dripping over a blob of vanilla ice 
cream placed precariously over a huge slice of rich chocolate cake. It was a 
heart attack served on a plate. Priyanka had two spoons and slid the dish 
towards me.

‘Look at me, eating away like a cow,’ she said.
‘Did you have a heart to heart with your mom?’ I said.
Priyanka wiped her chocolate-lined lips with tissue. I felt like kissing her 
right   then.   However,   I   hesitated.   When   you   hesitate   in   love,   you   know 
something is wrong.

‘Me and my mom,’ she said, ‘are incapable of having a rational, sane 
conversation. I tried to talk to her—about you and my plans to study further. 
It sounds like a simple conversation, right?’

‘What happened?’
‘We were crying in seven minutes. Can you believe it?’
‘With your mother, I can. What exactly did she say?’
‘You don’t want to know.’
‘But I have to know,’ I insisted.
‘She said she has never liked you. Because you are not settled, and 
because since the day I started dating you I have changed and become an 
unaffectionate and cold person.’ 

‘Unaffectionate? What the…?’ I shouted, my face turning red. ‘How the 

hell have I changed you?

The second comment cut me into thin slices. Sure, I hated the ‘not 
settled’ tag too, but there was some truth to that. How could she accuse me 
of turning Priyanka into a cold person, though?

She did not say anything. Her face softened and I heard tiny sobs. It was 
so unfair, I was the one being insulted: I should be the one getting to cry. 
However, I guess only girls look nice crying on dates.
‘Listen Priyanka, your mom is a psycho…’ I said.
‘No she is not. It is not because of you, but I have changed. Maybe it is 
because of my age—and she confuses it with my being with you. We used to be 
so close, and now she doesn’t like anything I do,’ she said and broke down 
into full-on-crying. Everyone in the café must have thought I had cheated on 
my girlfriend and was dumping her or something. I got some ‘you-horrible-
men’ looks from girls at other tables.

‘Calm down, Priyanka. What does she want? And tell me honestly, what 

do you want?’ I said.

Priyanka shook her head and remained silent.
It dives me nuts. The effort it sometimes takes to make women speak up 

is harder than interrogating terrorists. 

‘Please, talk to me,’ I said, looking at the brownie. The ice cream had 

melted to a gooey mess.

She finally spoke. ‘She wants me to show that I love her. She wants me 

to make her happy and marry someone she chooses for me.’

‘And what do you want?’ I said.
‘I don’t know,’ she told the tablecloth.
What the hell? I thought. All I get for four years of togetherness is an ‘I 

don’t know?

family.’

‘You want to dump me, don’t you? I am just not good enough for your 

‘It isn’t like that Shyam. She married my dad who was just a government 
employee only because he seemed like a decent human being. But her sisters 
waited to marry better-qualified boys and they are richer today. Her concern 
for me comes from there. She is my mother. It is not as if she does not know 
what is good for me. I want someone doing well in his career as well.’

‘So your mother is not the only cause for the strain in our relationship. 

It is you as well.’

‘A relationship never flounders for one reason alone. There are many 
issues. You don’t take feedback. You are sarcastic. You don’t understand my 
ambitions. Don’t I always tell you to focus on your career?’

‘Just get lost okay,’ I said.
My loud voice attracted the attention of the neighboring tables. All the 
girls   at   Mocha   were   probably   convinced   I   was   the   worst   possible   male 
chauvinist pig ever.

Her  tears were   back.  However,  she  noticed  people  watching us and 

composed herself. A few wipes with a tissue and she was normal again.

‘Shyam,   it   is   this   attitude   of   yours.   At   home,   my   mother   doesn’t 
understand. Over here, you don’t. Why have you become like this? You have 

changed Shyam, you are not the same happy person I first met,’ she, her 
voice restrained out calm.

‘Nothing has  happened  to  me.  It  is you  who  finds  new   faults in   me 
everyday. I have a bad boss and I am trying to manage as happily as possible. 
What has happened to you? You used to eat at truck drivers’ dhabas. Now all 
of a sudden you need an NRI cardiac surgeon to make ends meet?’

We started at each other for two seconds.
‘Okay,  it’s my fault.  That  is what  you  want   to  prove,  right?  I  am  a 

confused, selfish, mean person right?’ she said.

I looked at  her.   I couldn’t  believe   I had  loved  her  and  those  flared 
nostrils for four years. And now it was difficult to say four sentences without 
disagreeing.

I sighed. ‘I thought there was to be no arguing, blaming and sarcasm. 

But we have done it all.’

‘I care a lot for you,’ she said and held my hand.
‘Me too,’ I said, ‘but I think we need to take care of other things in our 

life as well.’

to leave.

We asked for the bill and made cursory conversation about the weather, 
traffic and the décor of the café. We were talking a lot, but we weren’t 
communicating at all.

‘Call me in the evening if you’re free,’ I said as I paid the bill and got up 

It had come to this: we had to tell each other to call. Previously, not a 

waking hour passed without one of us SMS-ing or calling the other.

‘Okay, or I will SMS you,’ she said. An SMS seemed simpler than dealing 

with another conversation.

question.

We   did   a   basic   hug,   without   really   touching.   A   kiss   was   out   of   the 

‘Sure,’ I said, ‘it’s always nice to get your message.’
Sarcasm. Man, will I never learn?

#19

Mocha Café and its colored Arabian lights faded away from my mind as it 
returned to WASG’s tube light-lit interiors. I checked the time: it was close to 
2:00   a.m.   I   got   up   to   take   a   short   walk.   I   did   not   know   what   was   more 
disgusting—thinking about Priyanka’s mother or hearing the girls obsess about 
Priyanka’s marriage. I went to the corner of the room where Military Uncle 
sat. We nodded to each other. I looked at his screen and saw pictures of 
animals—chimps, rhinos, lions and deer.

‘Are those your customers/’ I said and laughed at my own non-funny 

Military Uncle smiled back. He was in one of his rare good moods.
‘These are pictures I took at the zero. I scanned them to send to my 

joke.

grandson.’

‘Cool. He likes animals?’ I said and beet over to take a closer look at the 

chimp. It bore an uncanny resemblance to Bakshi.

‘Yes, I’m sending it by email to my son. But I’m having trouble as our 

emails do not allow more than four megabyte attachments.’

I decided to help Uncle, if only to avoid going back to the bay until the 

systems guy had fixed the phones.

‘Hmm… these are large files,’ I said, as I took over his mouse. ‘I could 
try to zip them—thought that won’t compress images much. The other way is 
to make the pictures low resolution. Otherwise, you can leave a few animals 
out.’

Military Uncle wanted to keep them high resolution. We agreed to leave 
out the deer and the hippos as those were not his grandson’s favorite animals.
‘Thanks so much, Shyam,’ Military Uncle said, as I successfully pressed 
‘send’ on his email. I looked at his face: there was genuine gratitude. It was 
hard to believe he had been booted out because he was too bossy with his 
daughter-in-law—a piece of gossip Radhika had once passed on to me.

‘You’re welcome,’ I said. I noticed Vroom signal to me to come back. 

Hoping that the topic of Priyanka’s wedding was over, I returned to the desk.

Bakshi has sent us a copy of the proposal,’ Vroom said.
I   sat   at   my   desk   and   opened   my   inbox.   There   was   a   message   from 

The   calls   had   not   resumed;   the   systems   guy   had   gone   back   to   his 

Bakshi.

department again to get new wires.

Vroom’s voice was excited.

‘Let’s see which whit e bozos he sucked up to. Who has he sent it to?’ 

I opened the mail to see who had been the original recipients. It was the 
who’s   who   of   Western   Computers   and   Appliances   in   Boston:   the   sales 
manager, the IT manager, the operations head and several others. Bakshi had 

sent it to the entire directory of people in our client base. I have to say, he is 
better at being a mass-suck-up than a gangbang porn star.

‘He  has   copied   everyone.   Senior   management   in   Boston   in  the   “to” 

field, and then India senior management in the “cc” field,’ I said.

‘And yet somehow he forgot to copy us. Bakshi the great,’ Vroom said.
I read out the contents of his short mail:
‘Dear All,
Attached please find the much-awaited user manual of the customer 
service website that changed the parameters of customer service at Western 
Appliances. I just wrapped this up today. I would love to discus this more 
when I’m in Boston…’

I let out a silence whistle.
‘Boston? How is that ass going to Boston,’ Vroom said.
‘Bakshi’s going to Boston,’ Vroom said. ‘Any of you ladies want to tag 

along?’

‘What?’ Esha said. ‘What is he going to Boston for?’
‘To talk about our website. Must have swung a trip for himself,’ I said.
‘What the hell is going on here anyway? On one hand we are downsizing 
to save costs, on the other hand there is cash to send idiots on trips to the 
US?’ Vroom said and threw his stress ball on the table. It hit the pen stand and 
the contents fell out.

‘Careful,’ Esha said, sounding irritated, as a few pens rolled towards 
her.   She   had   her   mobile   phone   in   her   hand,   probably   still   trying   to   call 
someone.

‘Madness. That is what this Connexions is. Boston!’ Priyanka said and 
shook her head. She was surfing the Internet. I wondered which sites she was 
looking at—wedding dresses, life in the US, or the Lexus official website.

I was about to close Bakshi’s message when vroom stopped me.
‘Open the document,’ Vroom said, ‘just open the file he sent,
‘It’s the same file we sent him. The user manual,’ I said.
‘Did you open it?’
‘No, what is the need…’
‘Just open it,’ he said so loudly that Esha looked at us. I wondered 

whom she was calling this late, but Vroom’s voice was battering into me.

I opened the file, which was our user manual.
‘Here, it is the same,’ I said, and scrolled down. As I reached the bottom 
of   the   first   page,   my   jaw   grew   lax,   partly   in   horror   and   partly   in   reflex 
preparation to voice some major curse words.

Western Computers Troubleshooting Website
Project Details and User Manual.
Developed by Connexions, Delhi
Subhash Bakshi
Manager, Connexions

‘Like   fuck   it   is   the   same,’   Vroom   said   and   threw   the   pens   he   had 
collected back on the table. One landed on Esha’s lap, who by this time had 
tried to connect to a number at least twenty times. She threw an angry look 
at Vroom and hurled the pen back at him. He ignored her as his eyes were on 
my screen.

‘It says it is by fucking Subhash Bakshi,’ Vroom said., tapping his finger 
hard on my monitor. ‘Check this out. Mr Moron, who can’t tell a computer 
from a piano, has done this website and this manual. Like crap he has.’

Vroom banged his fists on the table. In a mini-fit, he violently swept the 

table with his hands. All the pens fell on the floor.

‘What is wrong with you?’ Esha said and pulled her chair away to avoid 
to shower of pens. Desperately shaking the phone to get a connection, she got 
up and went to the conference room.

‘He passed off our work as his, Shyam. Do you realize that/’ he said and 

shook my shoulder hard.

I was numb as I started at the first page of our, or rather Bakshi’s, 
manual. This time Bakshi had bypassed himself in stealing credit. My head felt 
dizzy and I fought to breathe.

‘This is so crap. Six months of work on this manual alone,’ I said and 

closed the file. ‘I never thought he would stoop this low.’

‘And?’ Vroom said.
‘And what? I don’t really know what to do. I’m in shock. Plus, right now 

there is this fear he may downsize us…’ I said.

‘Downsize   us?’   Vroom   said   and   stood   up.   ‘We   worked   on   it   for   six 
months man. And all you can say is we can’t do anything as he may downsize 
us? This fucking loser Bakshi is turning you into a loser. Mr Shyam, you are 
turning into a mousepad, people are rolling over you everyday. Priyanka tell 
him t say something. Go to Bakshi’s office and hold his damn collar.’

Priyanka looked up at us, and for the second time that night, our eyes 
met bang on. She had that look; that same gaze that had made me feel small 
before. Like what was the point of even shouting at me.

She shook her head and gave a wry smile. I knew that wry smile by 
heart, too. Like she had known this was coming all along. I had the urge to go 
shake her by the collar. It is freaking easy to give those looks when you have a 
Lexus waiting for you, I wanted to say. But I didn’t say anything. Bakshi’s 
move had hurt me—it wasn’t just the six months of efforts, but also that the 
prospects for my promotion were gone. And that meant—proof!—Priyanka was 
going too. But right now the people see you as weak if you express hurt.  They 
always want to see you strong, meaning in a raging temper. Maybe I do not 
have  it in me.  That is why I am not a team leader. That  is why no  girls 
distribute sweets in the office for me.

‘Are you there, My Shyam?’ Vroom said. ‘Let’s email all the people this 

was sent to and tell them what is going on.’

‘Just cool down Vroom. There is no need to act like a hero,’ I snapped.

‘Oh really?  So, what should we act like? Losers? Tell us Shyam,  you 

should be the expert on that,’ Vroom said.

A surge of anger chocked me. ‘Just shut up and sit down,’ I said. ‘What 
do you want to do? Send another mail to the whites? And tell them there’s in-
fighting going on here? And whom are they going to believe: somebody who is 
going to Boston to meet them or some frustrated agent who claim he did all 
the   work?   Get   real   Mr   Vroom.   You’ll   get   fired   and   noting   else.   Bakshi   is 
management—he   manages,   yes,   he   does.   But   only   his   own   even   notice 
Radhika. She was standing next to me with a bottle of water in her hand.

‘Thanks,’ I said and took a few noisy sips.
‘Feeling better?’ Radhika said.
I raised my hand to stop her from saying more. ‘I don’t want to talk 
about   this  anymore.  It  is  between  us  and   Bakshi.   And   I  don’t  want   some 
random people, whose life is one big party, to give their opinion on it. Yes, 
my boss sucks. Most bosses suck. It isn’t such a big deal,’ I said and sat down. I 
glared at Vroom. He sat down as well.

Vroom opened a notepad and drew a 2x2 matrix.
‘What the fuck is that/’ I said.
‘I think I’ve finally figured Bakshi out. Let me explain with the help of a 

diagram,’ Vroom said.

‘Don’t mess with me. I don’t want any diagrams,’ I said.
‘Just hear me,’ Vroom said as he labeled the matrix.
On the horizontal axis he wrote ‘good’ and ‘evil’ next to each box. On 

the vertical axis, he wrote ‘smart’ and ‘stupid.’

‘Okay,  here is my theory about people like Bakshi,’ Vroom said and 
pointed with his pen to the matrix. ‘There are four kinds of bosses in this 
world based on two  dimensions:  a)  how  smart  or stupid  they are,  and b) 
whether they are good or evil. Only with extreme good luck do you get a boss 
who is smart and a good human being. However, Bakshi is the most dangerous 
but common category. He is stupid, as we all know. But more than that—he is 
evil,’ Vroom said, tapping his pen in the relevant quadrant of the matrix.

‘Stupid-evil,’ I echoed.
‘Yes, we understand him. He is scary one. He is like a blind snake: you 
feel sorry for it, but it still has a poisonous bite. You can see it—he is stupid, 
hence the call center is so mismanaged. But he is also evil, so he will make 
sure all of us go down instead of him.’

I shook my head.
‘Forget it. Destiny has put an asshole in my path. What can I say,’ I said 

and smirked.

Radhika   took   the   bottle   from   my   desk.   ‘Sorry   to   interrupt   your 
discussion   guys,   but   I   hope   you   weren’t   talking   about   me   when   you   said 
people whose life is a party. My life is not a party, my friend. It really isn’t—‘

‘—It   wasn’t   you,   Radhika.   Shyam   most   clearly   meant   me.’   Priyanka 

interrupted Radhika.

‘Oh forget it,’ I said and stood up. I moved from the desk just to get 
away from these nagging people. As I felt, I could hear Vroom’s words: ‘If I 

could   just   once   have   the   opportunity   to   fuck   this   Bakshi’s   happiness,   I’d 
consider myself the luckiest person on earth.’

#20

I walked away from the WASG desk. My mind was still messed up. I felt 
like cutting Bakshi into little bits and feeding those bits to every street dog in 
Delhi. I approached the conference room. The door was shut. I knocked and 
waited for a few seconds. Everything seemed quiet inside.
‘Esha? I said and turned the knob to open the door.
Esha was sitting one of the conference room chairs. Her right leg was 

bent and resting on another chair. She was examining the wound on her shin.
She held a blood-tipped box cutter in her hand. I noticed a used band-
aid on the table. There was fresh blood coming out of the wound on her shin.

‘Are you okay?’ I said, moving close to her.
Esha turned to look at me with a black expression.
‘Oh hi Shyam,’ she said in a calm tone.
‘What are you doing here? Everyone’s looking for you.’
‘Why? Why would anyone look for me?’
‘No   particular   reason.   What   are   you   doing   here   anyway?   And   your 
wound is bleeding, do you want some lotion or a bandage/’ I said and looked 
away. The sight of blood nauseates me. I don’t know how doctors show up to 
work everyday.

‘No Shyam, I like it like this. With lotion, it may stop hurting,’ Esha said.
‘What?’ I said. ‘Isn’t that the idea? You want the pain to end, right?’
‘No, Esha smiled sadly. She pointed to the wound with the box cutter. 
‘This pain takes my mind away from the real pain. Do you know what real pain 
is, Shyam?’

I really had no idea what this girl was saying. But I knew if she didn’t 

cover the wound soon, I’d throw up my recently consumed chocolate cake.

‘Listen, I’ll get the first-aid kit from the supplies room.’
‘You didn’t answer my question. What is the real pain, Shyam/’
‘I don’t know…what is it?’ I said, shifting anxiously as I saw fresh drops 

of blood trickle down her smooth leg.

‘Real pain is mental pain,’ Esha said.
‘Right,’ I said, trying to sound intelligent. I sat down on a chair next to 

‘Ever felt mental pain, Shyam?’
‘I don’t know if I have. I’m a shallow guy, you see. I don’t feel a lot of 

her.

things,’ I said.

‘Everyone feels pain, because everyone has a dark side to their life.’
‘Dark side?’
‘Yes, dark side—something you don’t like about yourself, something that 
makes you angry or something that you fear, all this makes up our dark side. 
Do you have a dark side, Shyam/’

‘Oh let’s not go there. I have so many—like half a dozen dark sides. I am 

like dark-sided hexagon,’ I said.

‘Ever felt guilt, Shyam? Real hard, painful guilt?’ she said as her voice 

became weak.

‘What happened, Esha/’ I said, as I finally found a position that allowed 

me to look at her face but avoid a view of her wound.

‘Can you promise not to judge me if I tell you something?’
‘Of course,’ I said, as it took me a second to figure out what ‘slept’ 

meant. It didn’t mean ‘zzzs.’

‘Yes, my agent said this man was connected. I just had to sleep with him 
once to get a break in a major fashion show. Nobody forced me. I choose to do 
it. But ever since, I feel this awful guilt. Every single moment. I thought it 
would pass, but it hasn’t. and that pain is so bad, this wound in my leg feels 
like   a   tickle,’   she   said   and   took   the   box   cutter   to   her   shin.   She   started 
scrapping skin around the wound.

‘Stop it Esha, what are you doing/’ I said and snatched the box cutter 
from her. ‘Are you insane? You’ll get tetanus or gangrene or whatever other 
horrible-things they show on TV in those vaccination ads.’

‘This is tame. I’ll tell you what is dangerous. Your own fucked up brain, 
the delusional voice in you that says you have it in you to become a model. 
You know what this man said afterwards/’

‘Which man?’ I said as I shoved the box cutter to the other side of the 

up.

table.

‘The guy I slept with—a forty-year-old designer. He told my agent later I 
was   too   short   to   be   a   ramp   model,’   Esha   said,   her   voice   rising   as   anger 
mingled with sadness. ‘Like the bastard didn’t know that when he slept with 
me.’ She began crying. I don’t know what is worse—a shouting girl or a crying 
one. I’m awful at handling either. I placed my hands on Esha’s shoulders, 
ready for a hug in case she needed it.

‘And that son of a bitch sends some cash as compensation afterwards,’ 
she said, now sobbing. ‘And my agent tells me, this is part of life. Sure it is 
part of life—part of Esha the failed model’s fucked-up life. Give me my box 
cutter back, Shyam,’ she said, spreading a palm.

‘No,   I   won’t.   Listen,   now   I   am   not   really   sure   what   to   do   in   this 
situation, but just take it easy,’ I said. It was true; nobody would ever demand 
to   have   sex   with   me.   Therefore,   feeling-guilty-after-demanded-sex   was 
completely unfamiliar territory.

‘I hate myself, Shyam. I just hate myself. And I hate my face, and the 
stupid mirror that shows me this face. I hate myself for believing people who 
told me I could be a model. Can I get my face altered?’

I did not know of any plastic surgeons who specialized in turning pretty 
girls ugly, so I kept quiet. She stopped crying after ninety seconds, around the 
time any girl would stop crying if you ignored her. She took a tissue from her 
bag and wiped her eyes,

‘Shall we go? They must be waiting,’ I said. She held my hand to stand 

‘Thanks for listening to me,’ Esha said. Only women think there is a 

reason to thank people if they listen to them.

#21

To my disgust, Priyanka’s wedding was still the topic of discussion when 

Esha and I returned to the bay.
Esha sat down quietly.

‘Now where were you?’ Priyanka asked Esha.
‘Here only. Wanted to make a private call,’ Esha said.
‘I’m taking mother-in-law tips from Radhika,’ Priyanka said. I’m so not 
looking forward to that part. She seems nice now, but who knows how she will 
turn out.’

‘C’mon, you are getting so much more in return. Ganesh is such a nice 

guy,’ Radhika said.

Vroom said.

‘Anyway I’d take three mothers-in-law for a Lexus. Bring it on man’ 

Radhika and Priyanka started laughing.
‘I’ll miss you Vroom,’ Priyanka said, still laughing, ‘I really will.’
‘Who else will you miss?’ Vroom said and all of us fell silent.
Priyanka shifted on her seat: Vroom had caught her on the spot. She did 

not want to say my name, I knew it.

‘Oh I’ll miss all of you,’ she said, diplomacy queen that she can be when 

she wants to. She thinks she can outsmart the world with her boring replies.

‘Whatever, Vroom said.
‘Anyway, don’t wish for three mothers-in-law, Vroom. It can be like 

asking for three Bakshis. Well, at least it can be for women, Radhika said.

‘So your mother-in-law is evil?’ Vroom said.
‘I never said she is bad. But she did say those things to Anuj. What will 

‘Nothing. He won’t think anything. He knows how lucky he is to have 

he think?’

you,’ Priyanka said firmly.

‘It is hard sometimes. She isn’t my mom, after all.’
‘Oh, don’t go there. I can get along with anyone else’s mom better than 
my own.  My  mom’s neurosis has  made  me  mother-in-law  proof,’  Priyanka 
said, and everyone on the desk laughed. I did not, as there is nothing funny 
about Priyanka’s mom to me. Emotional manipulators like her should be put in 
jail and made to watch sappy TV serials all day.

‘Anuj should be okay, right? Tell me guys: he won’t hate me?’ Radhika 

said.

fine.’

‘No,’ Priyanka got up and went to Radhika. ‘He loves you and he will be 

‘You want to check if he is okay?’ Vroom said. ‘I have an idea.’ 
‘What?’ Radhika said.

I looked at Vroom. What the hell did he have to say about Anuj and 

Radhika?

‘Let’s play radio jockey,’ Vroom said. ‘it’s really fun.’
‘What is radio jockey?’ Radhika was baffled.
‘Well. I call Anuj and pretend I cam calling from a radio show. Then I tell 
him   he   has   won   a   prize,   a   large   bouquet   of   roses   and   a   box   of   Swiss 
chocolates that he can send to anyone he loves, anywhere in India, with a 
loving message. So then, we all get to hear what romantic lines he says to 
you.’

‘C’mon, it will never work,’ Priyanka said. ‘You can’t sound like an RJ.’
‘Trust me. I am a call center agent. I can make a convincing RJ.’ Vroom 

said.

I was curious to see how Vroom would do his RJ act. 
‘Okay,’ Vroom said as he got ready, ‘It’s show time, folks. Take line five 

everyone. And no noise: breathe away from the mouthpiece, okay?’

Radhika gave him the number as we took line five. Vroom dialed Anuj’s 

mobile phone.

We glued the earpiece to our ears. The telephone rang five times.
‘He’s sleeping,’ Priyanka whispered.
‘Shhh,’ Vroom went, as we heard someone pick up.
‘Hello?’ Anuj said in a sleepy voice.
‘Hello there, my friend, is this 98101-46301?’ Vroom said in an insanely 

cheerful, radio jockey voice.

‘Yes, who is it?’ Anuj said.
‘It is your lucky call for tonight. This is RJ Max calling from Radio City 

98.5 FM, and you my friend have just won a prize.’

‘Radio City? Are you trying to sell me something?’ Anuj said. I guess 

being a salesperson himself, he was skeptical.

‘No my friend, I am not selling anything—no credit cards, no insurance 
policies and no phone plans. I am just going to offer you a small prize from 
our sponsor Interflora and you can request a song if you want to. Man, people 
doubt me so much these days,’ Vroom said.
‘Sorry, I was just not sure,’ Anuj said.
‘Max is the name. What’s yours?’ Vroom said. 
‘Anuj,’
‘Nice talking to you Anuj. Where are you right now?’
‘Kolkata.’
‘Oh, the land of sweets, excellent. Anyway, Anuj, you get to send a 
dozen red roses with your message to anyone in India. This service is brought 
to you by Interflora, one of the world’s largest flower delivery companies.’

Vroom was like a pro, I must admit.
‘And I don’t have to pay anything? Thanks Interflora,’ Anuj said with 

suitable gratitude.

with our hands.

All of us had out mouths shut right and the headset mouthpiece covered 

‘No my friend, no payment at all. So are you ready with your special 

person’s name and address?’

‘Yes sure. I’d like to send it to my girlfriend Payal.’
I think the earth shook beneath us. I looked at Vroom’s face, his jaw 

had dropped wide open. He waved a hand in confusion. 

‘Payal?’   Vroom   said,   his   voice   dropping   to   more   normal   levels,   less 

exuberant than that of a hyperactive RJ.

‘Yes, she is my girlfriend. She lives in Delhi. She is modern type of girl, 

so please make the bouquet trendy…’ Anuj said.

Radhika could not stay silent any longer.
‘Payal? What did you just say, Anuj? Your girlfriend Payal?’ Radhika said.
‘Who is that?...Radhika…?’
‘Yes, Radhika. Your fucking wife Radhika.’
‘What is going on here? Who is this Max guy, hey Max?’ Anuj said.
I   think   the   Max   guy   just   died.   Vroom   put   his   hand   on   his   head, 

wondering what to say next.

‘You talk to me, you asshole,’ Radhika said, probably cursing for the 
first time since she got married. ‘What message were you going to send this 
Payal?’

‘Radhika, honey. Listen this is a prank. Max? Max?
‘There is no Max. it is Vroom here,’ Vroom said in a black voice.
‘You bastar—‘ Anuj began before Radhika –stood up and cut the line. She 
set back down on her chair, stunned. A few seconds later, she broke into 
tears.

Vroom looked at Radhika. ‘damn, Radhika I am so sorry,’ he said.
Radhika did not answer. She just cried and cried. In between, she lifted 
the half-knit scarf to wipe her tears. Something told me Radhika would never 
finish the scarf.

Esha   held   Radhika’s   hand   tight.   Maybe   the   tear   bug   passed   through 
hands because Esha started crying as well. Priyanka went and brought back 
water. Radhika poured out a glassful of tears, and drank the glass of water.

‘Take   it   easy.   It’s   probably   a   misunderstanding,’   Priyanka   said.   She 
looked at Esha, puzzled about why Esha was so upset over Payal,  I guess 
Esha’s ‘real pain’ was back.

Radhika rifled through her bag looking for her headache pills. She only 

found an empty blister pack. She mouthed some curses and threw it aside.

‘Radhika/’ Priyanka said.
‘Just leave me alone for a few minutes,’ Radhika said.
‘Girls, I really need to talk,’ Esha said, a she wiped her tears.
‘What’s   up?’   Priyanka   said   as   she   looked   at   Esha.   They   exchanged 
glances: Esha used the female telepathic network to ask Priyanka to come to 
the toilet. Priyanka tapped Radhika’s shoulder and the girls stood up.

‘Now where are you girls going?’ Vroom said. ‘I caused this situation. 

Can’t you talk here?’

left the desk.

‘We have our private stuff to discuss,’ Priyanka said firmly to Vroom and 

‘What’s up? What’s the deal with Esha?’ Vroom said to me after the girls 

were out of sight.

‘Nothing,’ I said.
‘C’mon tell me, she must have told you in the conference room.’
‘I can’t tell you,’ I said and looked at my screen. I tried to change the 

topic. ‘Do you think Bakshi experts us to prepare for his team meeting?’

‘I think Esha is sad because she regards saying no to me,’ Vroom said.
I smirked
‘If not that, then what is it?’ Vroom said, looking at me with a puzzled 

expression. I shrugged my shoulders.

‘Fine. I’ll use our earlier technique. I am going to the toilet to find out,’ 

‘No Vroom, no,’ I said. I tried to grab his shirt, but he pulled away and 

Vroom said.

went to the men’s room.

I did not chase after him. I did not care if he found out. I figured he 
ought to know what his live interest was up to anyway. I called systems and 
told them the calls had not resumed yet. They promised to come to my desk 
with the new cable within ‘five minutes maximum’. I guess systems guys are 
busy. Computers are supposed to help men—but enough computers need help 
from men as well.

With no one at the desk and systems down, I decided to take a walk 
around the room. I passed by Military Uncle’s raised his head. I looked at his 
face: his wrinkles seemed more pronounced, making him look older.

‘My son replied to the mail I sent,’ he said. ‘I think the file was too big.’
‘Really? What did he say? I said.
Military Uncle shook his head and put his head back on the desk. The 

message on his screen caught my eye. It was an email from his son.

Dad...   you   have   cluttered   my   life   enough,   now   stop 
cluttering my mailbox. I do not know what came over me that I 
allowed communication between you and my son. I don’t want 
your shadow on him. Please stay away and do not send him any 
more   emails.   For   literally   or   otherwise,   we   don’t   want   your 
attachments.

‘It’s nothing,’ Uncle said, as he closed all the windows on his screen. ‘I 

should get back to work. What happened? Your systems are down again?’

‘A lot is down tonight, not just the systems,’ I said and returned to my 

seat.

#2   2  

‘Did you know?’ Vroom whispered to me as he returned from the men’s 

toilet.

‘What?’ I said.
‘Esha’s big bad story.’
‘I’d rather not discuss it.. it’s her private matter.’
‘No wonder she won’t go out with me. She needs to romp her way to 

the ramp doesn’t she?’ Bitch.’

‘Mind your language,’ I said, ‘and where are the girls?’
‘Coming back soon. Your chick was consoling Radhika when I left.’
‘Priyanka is not my chick Vroom. Will you just shut up?’ I said.
‘Okay, I will shut up. That is what a good call center agent does right? 
Crap happens around him and he just smiles and says how can I help you/ 
Like, someone just slept with the one girl I care for. But it is okay right? Pass 
me the next dumb customer.’

‘The girls are coming,’ I said as I saw them return. ‘Pretend you know 

nothing about Esha.’

The desk was silent as the girls took their seats. Vroom was about to say 
something, but I signaled him to be quiet. The systems guy finally showed up 
with new kick-proof wires and re-installed our systems. I was relieved as calls 
began to trickle in. sorting Americans’ oven and fridge problems was easier 
then solving our life’s problems.

I looked at  Priyanka once;  she  was busy with a caller.  ‘My  chick,’  I 
smirked to myself at Vroom’s comment. She was no longer my chick. She was 
going to marry a rich, successful guy—someone who had no competition from 
a loser like me. Certainly not after Bakshi backstabbed me with his website, I 
thought. But had I given up?  Did I still feel for her? I shook my head at the 
irrelevant questions. How did it matter if I still felt for her? I did not deserve 
her, and I was not going to get her. That was reality, and as is often the case 
with me, reality sucks,

Esha was still quite subdued after returning from the toilet. Priyanka 

was trying to cheer her up.

‘Get a flowing lehnga for the engagement. But what will you wear for 

the wedding? A sari?’ Priyanka asked Esha between calls.

‘My navel rig will show,’ Esha said.
I am constantly amazed at the ability of women to calm down. All they 
need to do is talk, hug and cry it out for ten minutes—and then they can face 
any of life’s crap. Esha’s ‘real pain’ was obviously much better, or she was at 
least distracted from it, given she could discuss her dress plans for Priyanka’s 
big day.

‘Don’t   do   anything   elaborate,’   Priyanka   said,   ‘I’m   going   to   tell   my 
mother I want a simple sari. Of course, she will freak out. Hey Radhika, are 
you okay?’ Priyanka said, as she noticed Radhika massaging her forehead.

‘I’ll be fine. I am just one of migraine pills,’ Radhika said as she picked 

up a call. ‘Western Appliances, Regina speaking. How may I help you?’

The landline telephone’s ring caught everyone’s attention.
This is my call. Guys I know system is live, but can I take this call?’ 

‘Sure.   Call   flow   is   so   light   anyways,’   Vroom   said   as   the   landline 

Priyanka said.

continued to ring.

Priyanka’s   hand   reached   for   the   telephone.   I   casualty   switched   the 

option on my screen to listen in to the conversation.

‘By   the   way,   dark   blue   mice   is   also   a   good   colour,’   Vroom   said   as 

Priyanka lifted the receiver.
‘What?’ Priyanka said.
‘I saw the Lexus website, dark blue mica is their best colour,’ Vroom 

I threw Vroom a disgusted glance.
‘At least that is what I think,’ Vroom’s voice dropped as he intercepted 

said.

my look.

‘Hello,   my   center   of   attention,’   Ganesh’s   beaming   voice   came   over 

Priyanka and my phones.

‘Hi Ganesh,’ Priyanka said sedately.
‘What’s up, Priya? You sound serious,’ Ganesh said.
Priyanka hates it when people shorten her name to Priya. This moron 

did not know that.

Priyanka, she said.

‘Nothing.   Just   having   a   rough   day...sorry   night.   And   please   call   me 

‘Well, I am having a rocking day here. Everyone in office is so excited 
for   me.   They   keep   asking   me   “so   when   is   the   date?”,   “Where   is   the 
honeymoon?”’ 

‘Yeah Ganesh, about the date,’ Priyanka said, ‘my mom just called.’
‘She did. Oh no. I thought I’d give you the good news myself.’
‘What good news?’
‘That I am coming to India next month. We should get married then 
only. What say, honeymoon straight from there? People said the Bahamas is 
amazing. But I’ve always wanted to go to Paris. Because what could be more 
romantic than Paris.’

‘Ganesh,’ Priyanka said, her voice frantic.
‘What?’
‘Can I say something?’
‘Sure. But first tell me, Paris or Bahamas?’
‘Ganesh.’
‘Please tell me where you’d rather go.’
‘Paris. Now can I say something?’ Priyanka said.
Esha   and   Radhika   raised   their   eyebrows   when   they   heard   the   word 

Paris. It was not difficult to guess that honeymoon planning was in progress.

‘Sure. What do you want to say?’ Ganesh said.
‘Don’t you think it is a little rushed?’

‘What?’
‘Our marriage. We have only talked to each other for a week. I know, 

we spoke quite a bit, but still.’

‘You’ve said yes to me right?’ Ganesh said.
‘Yes, but…’
‘Then why wait? I don’t get much leave here. And considering I now 
spend my every living moment thinking about you, I’d rather get you here at 
the earliest.’

‘But, this is marriage Ganesh. Not just a vacation. W have to give each 
other time to get ready for this,’ Priyanka said and twirled a strand of hair 
with her finger. I used to love playing with her hair when we were together.

‘But,’ Ganesh said, ‘you spoke to your mother, right? You heard how 
happy she is about us getting married next month. My family is excited as 
well. Marriage is a family occasion too, right?’

‘I know. Listen, maybe I am just having a rough night. Let me sleep over 

it.’

‘Sure. Take your time. But did you think of a color?’
‘For what? The car/’
‘Yeah, I am going to pay the deposit tomorrow. So it is there when you 

arrive—assuming you agree to next month, of course.’
‘I can’t say. Wait, I heard dark blue mica is nice.’
‘Really? I kind of like black,’ Ganesh said.
‘Well then take black. Don’t let me…’ Priyanka said.
‘No, dark blue mica it is. I like that colour. I’ll tell the dealer it is my 

wife’s choice.

The words ‘my wife’ sizzled my inside the way they fry French fries at 
McDonald’s. I closed my eyes for a few seconds. I could not bear to hear 
another man talk like this to Priyanka.

‘Hey Ganesh, it is 2:25 a.m. here. I have to get ready for a 2:30 meeting 

with the boss. Can we talk later?’ Priyanka said.

‘Sure. I might leave work early today. Maybe see some new tiles for the 

pool. But I’ll call you when I get home okay?’

‘Pool?’ Priyanka said, as she took the bait.
‘Yes, we have a small swimming pool in our house.
‘Our house? You mean you have a private pool?’
‘Of Course. You know how to swim?’
‘I have never stepped inside a pool in my life,’ Priyanka said,.
‘Well, I can teach you. I am sure there are many interesting possibilities 

in the pool.’

same.’

The French fries were burnt charcoal black from being over friend.
‘Bye Ganesh,’ Priyanka smiled and shook her head. ‘You guys are all the 

She hung up the phone.
‘What’s up,’ Esha said as she filed her nails.
‘Nothing, same stuff. First tell me, you okay?’ Priyanka said.
‘I am fine please keep me distracted. I heard Paris.’

‘Yes,   honeymoon   destination.   And   of   course,   more   pressure   to   get 

married next month. I don’t want to, but I just might have to give in.’

‘Well, if it means seeing Paris sooner rather than later…’ Esha said and 

looked over at us. ‘Right guys?’

‘Sure,’ Vroom said. ‘What do you think Shyam/’
Stupid ass, I hate Vroom.
‘Me?’ I said as everyone continued to look at me. Esha kept staring at 
me for five seconds non-stop. I did not want to come across as sulking for 
childish, my new tag for the night), so I responded.

‘Sure,   might   as   well   get   it   done.   Then   go   to   Paris   or   Bahamas   or 

whatever.’

Damn. I kicked myself as the words left my mouth. Priyanka heard me 

and looked at me. Her nose twitched as she thought hard.

‘What did you just say Shyam?’ Priyanka said slowly, looking straight at 

me, her nostrils flaring big-time.

‘Nothing,’ I said, avoiding eye contact. ‘I just said get married and go to 

Paris sooner.’

Bahamas?’ Priyanka said.

‘No,   you   also   said   Bahamas.   How   did   you   know   Ganesh   mentioned 

I kept quite.
‘Answer me, Shyam. Ganesh also suggested Bahamas, but I didn’t tell 

you guys. How did you know he’d said that?’

‘I don’t know anything.  I just randomly said it,’  I  said, trying to be 

convincing, but my shaking voice was giving me away.

‘Were you listening to my conversation? Shyam, have you played around 
with the phone?’ Priyanka said and got up. She lifted the landline phone and 
pulled it away from the table. The wires followed her. She looked down under 
the table and tugged at the wires again. A little wire tensed up all the way 
back to my seat. Damn, busted, I thought.

‘Shyam,’ Priyanka screamed at the top of her voice and banged the 

landline instrument on the table.

‘Yes,’ I said, as calmly as possible.
‘What is going on here? I cannot believe you could sink so low. This is 

the height of indecency,’ she said.

At least I had achieved the heights in something. I thought. 
Radhika and Esha looked at me. I threw up my hands, pretending to be 

ignorant of the situation.

Vroom   stood   and   went   up   to   Priyanka.   He   put   his   arm   around   her 
shoulder, ‘C’mon Priyanka, take it east. We are all having a rough night here.’
‘Shut up. This is insane,’ she said and turned to me. ‘How could you tap 

into my personal calls? I can complain about this and get you fired.’

‘Then   do   it,’   I   said,   ‘what   are   you   waiting   for?   Get   me   fired.   Do 

whatever?’

Vroom looked at Priyanka and then at me. Realizing he could not do too 

much to help, he returned to his seat.

Esha pulled Priyanka’s hand, making her sit down again.

‘What the…he…’ Priyanka said, anger and impending tears showing in 

her voice. ‘Can’t once expect just a little decent from their colleagues?’

I guess I was just a colleague now. An indecent colleague at that.
‘Say something,’ Priyanka said to me.
I  stayed   silent   and   disconnected   the  tapped  wire.   I  showed  her   the 

unhooked cable and threw it on the table.

Our eyes met. Even though we were silent, our eyes communicated.
My eyes said to her: Why are you humiliating me?
Her eyes said to me: Why are you doing this Shyam?
I think eye-talk is more effective than word-talk. Every now and then, 
human beings should shut up and let their eyes speak. But Priyanka was in no 
mood to be silent.

‘Why   Shyam   why?   Why   do   you   do   such   childish,   immature   things?   I 
thought we were going to make this amicable. We agreed to some terms and 
conditions, didn’t we?’

I did not want to discuss our terms and conditions in public. I wanted 
her to shut up and for me to scream instead. However, I was in the wrong, 
like the car driver who hits a bicycle. I had no choice but to stay quiet. I had 
to pay for my ‘childishness’.

’We said we could continue to work together. And that even if we have 
ended our relationship, we do not have to end our friendship. But this?’ she 
said and lifted the wire to the table. Then she threw it down again.

‘Sorry,’ I said, or rather whispered.
‘What/’ she said.
‘Sorry,’ I said, this time loud and clear. I hate it when she does this to 

humiliate me. Fuck it, if you have heard an apology—just accept it.

‘Do me a huge favour. Stay out of my life pleas. Will you?’ Priyanka said, 

her voice heavy with the sarcasm she had picked up from me.

I looked up at her and nodded. I felt like putting her and Ganesh in their 
dark blue mica Lexus, wrapping it with the landline wire and drowning it in 
Ganesh’s new pool.

Vroom   sniggered,   even   as   he   continued   clicking   his   mouse.   A   smile 

rippled over Esha and Radhika as well.

‘What’s so funny?’ Priyanka said, her face still red.
‘It’s okay, Priyanka. C’mon, can’t you take it in a bit of good humor?’ 

‘Your humor,’ Priyanka said and paused, ‘has a tumor. It isn’t funny to 

‘It’s 2:30 guys,’ Esha said and clapped her hands, ‘time to got o Bakshi’s 

Priyanka  and I gave  each other one  final glare before  we  got up  to 

Vroom said.

me at all.’

office.’

leave.

‘Is Military Uncle required?’ Esha said.
‘No. just the voice agents,’ I said. I looked at Military Uncle at the end 

of the room. I could see he was busy at the chat helpline.

‘Let’s go Radhika,’ Vroom said.

they share?’ Radhika said.

‘You okay Radhika?’ I said.
‘Yes, I am fine. I am surprised that I am, actually. I think I must be in 
shock.   Or   maybe   nobody   has   taught   me   an   appropriate   reaction   for   this 
situation. My husband is cheating on me. What am I supposed to do? Scream? 
Cry? What?’

‘Nothing for now. Let’s just attend Bakshi’s meeting,’ Vroom said as we 

‘Do you think he loves her? Or is it just sex? Some good, wild sex that 

turned to go to Bakshi’s room.

My   brain   was   still   fumbling   at   Priyanka’s   words—‘we   had   terms   and 
conditions’. Like our break-up was a business contract. Every moment of our 
last date replayed itself as I walked to Bakshi’s office. We had gone to Pizza 
Hut, and pizzas have never tasted as good ever since.

#  23   
My Past Dates with 
Priyanka—V

Pizza Hut, Sahara Mall, Gurgaon
Four months before this night

She came on time that day. After all, she was coming with a purpose. 
This was not a date—we were meeting to formally break up. Actually, there 
was nothing left in our relationship to break anymore. Still, I had agreed, if 
only to see her face as she told me. She also wanted to discuss how we were 
to   interact   with   each   other   and   move   forward.   Discuss,   interact,   move 
forward—when you start using words like that, you know the relationship is 
dead.

We chose Pizza Hut only because it was, well, convenient. For break-
ups, location takes priority over ambience. She had come to shop in Sahara 
Mall, where half of Delhi descends whenever there is a public holiday.

‘Hi,’ she said and looked at her watch. ‘Wow! Look, I have actually 
come on time today. How are you?’ she held her shirt collar and shook it for 
ventilation. ‘I can’t believe it is so hot in July.’

Priyanka cannot tolerate awkward silences; she will say anything to fill 

in the gaps. Cut the bullshit, I wanted to say, but did not.

‘It’s Delhi. What else do you expect?’ I said.
‘I   think   most   people   who   come   to   mails   just   come   for   the   air-

conditioning—‘

mall visitors did not interest me.

‘Can we do this quickly?’ I said, interrupting her. Consumer motives of 

‘Huh?’ she said, startled by my tone.
The   waiter   came   and   took   our   order.   I   ordered   two   separate   small 
cheese ‘n mushroom pizzas. I did not want to share a large pizza with her, 
even though, on a per square inch of pizza basis, the large one worked out 
way cheaper.

‘I am not good at this break-up stuff, so let’s not drag this out,’ I said. 
‘We’ve met for a purpose. So now what? Is there a break-up line that I’m 
supposed to say?’

She stared at me for two seconds. I avoided looking at her nose. Her 

nose, I had always felt, belonged to me.

‘Well I just thought we could do it in a pleasant manner. We can still be 

friends, right?’ she said.

What   is  with  women   wanting   to   be  friends   forever?   Why   can’t   they 

make a clear decision between a boyfriend and no-friends?

‘I don’t think so. Both of us have enough friends.’
‘See, this is what I don’t like about you. That tone of voice…’ she said.

‘I thought we decided not to discuss each other’s flaws today. I have 
come here to break up, not to make a friend or get an in-depth analysis of my 
behavior.’

She kept silent until the pizzas arrived on our table. I started eating a 

slice.

complicated,’ Priyanka said.

‘Perhaps you forget that we work together. That makes it a little more 

‘Like how?’
‘Like if there is tension between us, it will make it difficult to focus on 

work—for us and for the others,’ she said.

‘So what do you suggest? I have broken up already, now should I resign 

as well?’ I said.

‘I didn’t say that. Anyway, I am going to be in this job only nine more 
months. By next year I would have saved enough to fund my B.Ed. Therefore 
the situation will automatically correct itself. But if we can agree to certain 
terms and conditions—like if we can remain friendly in the interim…’

‘I can’t force myself to be friendly,’ I interrupted her, ‘my approach to 
relationship is different. Sorry if it is not practical enough for you. But I can’t 
fake it.’

‘I’m not telling you to fake it,’ she said.
‘Good. Because you are past the stage of telling me what to do. Now, let 
us just get this over with. What are we supposed to say? I now pronounce 
ourselves broken up? Then we say, I do, I do?’

I pushed my plate away. I had completely lost my appetite. I felt like 

tossing the pizza like a Frisbee to the end of the room.

‘What,  say something,’  I said, after  she  had  remained silent for  ten 

seconds.

‘I don’t know what to say,’ she said, her voice cracking.
‘Really? No words of advice, no last minute preaching, no moral high 
ground in these final moments for your good-for-nothing unsettled boyfriends? 
C’mon Priyanka, don’t lose your chance to slamming the loser.’

She collected her bag and stood up. She took out a hundred-rupee note 

and put it on the table–her contribution for the pizza.

‘Okay, she leaves in silence again. Once again I get to be the prick,’ I 

mumbled, loud enough for her to hear.

‘Shyam,’ she said, slinging her bag on to her shoulder.
‘Yes?’ I said.
‘You know how you always say you are not good at anything? I don’t 
think that’s true. Because there is something you are quite good at,’ she said.
‘What?’ I said. Perhaps she wanted to give me some last minute praise 

to make me feel better, I thought.

‘You are damn good at hurting people. Keep it up.’
With that, my ex-girlfriend turned around and left.

#24

We reached Bakshi’s office at 2:30 AM. The size of a one-bedroom flat, 
it is probably the largest unproductive office in the world. His desk, on which 
he   had   a   swank   flat   screen   OPC,   is   at   one   corner.   Behind   the   desk   is   a 
bookshelf full of heavy management books of a scary thickness. Some of them 
are so heavy you can use them as assault weapons. The thought of slamming 
one hard on Bakshi’s head had often crossed my mind during previous team 
meetings.   Apart   from   blonde   threesomes,   I   think   hitting   your   boss   is   the 
ultimate Indian male fantasy.

At another corner of the room is a conference table and six chairs. In 
the   center  of  the   table   is a  speakerphone  for  multiparty  calls   with  other 
offices.

Bakshi was not in his office when we reached his room. ‘Where the hell 

‘Maybe he’s in the toilet?’ I said.
‘Executive toilet, it is a different feeling,’ Vroom said as I nodded in 

is her?’ Vroom said.

agreement.

We   sat   around   Bakshi’s   conference   table.   All   of   us   had   brought 
notebooks to the meeting. We never really used them, but it always seems 
necessary to sit in meetings with an open notebook.

‘Where is he?’ Priyanka said.
‘I don’t know. Who cares,’ Vroom said and stood up. ‘Hey Shyam, want 

tot check out Bakshi’s computer/’ he walked over to Bakshi’s desk.

‘What?’ I said. ‘Are you crazy? He will come any minute. What can you 

see so fast anyway?’

‘Just for fun. Do you want to know what website Bakshi visits?’ Vroom 
said and learned over so he could reach Bakshi’s keyboard. He opened up 
Internet   Explorer   and   pressed   Ctrl+H   to   pull   out   the   history   of   visited 
websites.

‘Have you gone nuts?’ you’ll get in trouble,’ I said.
‘Come back Vroom,’ Esha said.
‘Okay, I’ve just fired a printout,’ Vroom said and sprinted across the 
room to Bakshi’s printer. He fetched the printout and leaped back to the 
conference table.

‘Are you stupid?’ I said.
‘Okay guys check this out,’ Vroom said as he held the A4 sheet in front 
of him. ‘Timesofindia.com, rediff.com, and then we have, Harvard business 
review website, Boston weather website, Boston places to see, Boston real 
estate—‘

‘—What with him and Boston?’ Esha said.
‘He is going there on a business trip soon,’ Radhika reminded her.
‘And what other website?’ I said.
‘There is more. Aha, here is what I was looking for: awesomeindia.com—
the best porn site for Indian girls, adultfriendfinder.com—a sex personals site, 

cabaretlounge.com—a strip club in Boston, porninspector.com… hello, the list 
goes on this department.’

‘What’s with him and Boston?’ I repeated Esha’s words.
‘Who knows?’ Vroom said and laughed. ‘hey check this out: the official 

website for Viagra, visited six hours ago.’

‘I’ll try and ask him about Boston,’ Priyanka said.
We heard Bakshi’s footsteps and Vroom quickly folded the sheet. We 

turned quiet and opened our notebooks to fresh blank pages.

Bakshi took fast steps as he entered his office.
‘Sorry team. I had to visit the computers bay team leaders for some 
pertinent managerial affairs. Si, how is everyone doing tonight?’ Bakshi said as 
he took the last empty seat at his conference table.

No one responded. I nodded my head to show I was doing fine, but 

Bakshi was not looking at me.

‘Team, I have called you today to tell you about a few changes that may 

happen at Connexions. We need to right size people.’ 

‘So, people are getting fired. It wasn’t a rumor,’ Vroom said. 
Radhika’s   face   turned   white.   Priyanka   and   Esha   had   a   shocked 

expression.

sometime.’

can do,’ vroom said.

‘We never want to fire people, Mr Victor. But we have to right size 

‘Why? Why are we firing people when clearly there are other things we 

‘We have carefully, evaluated all the plausible and feasible alternatives, 
I am afraid, ‘Bakshi said and took out a pen. Everyone moved back nervously. 
The last thing we needed was another Bakshi diagram.

‘Cost-cutting is the only alternative,’ Bakshi  said and began to draw 
something. However, the pen did not work. He tried to shake it into action, a 
pointless thing to do with a ball pen. The pen refused to cooperate, perhaps 
sick of Bakshi’s abuse.

I was going to offer y own pen but Esha, who was sitting at my side, 
sensed the movement and quickly pulled at my elbow to stop me. Bakshi 
continued   to  lecture   us.   He  spoke   non-stop   for   six   minutes  (or   ninety-six 
breaths). He went into various management philosophies, schools of thought, 
corporate governance methods and other deeply complicated stuff that I know 
nothing   about,   his   point   was   that   we   should   make   the   company   more 
efficient. He just did not have an efficient way to say it.

Vroom had promised me he would not mention the website to Bakshi 
tonight, at least until the lay-offs were over. However, this did not stop him 
from taking on Bakshi.

‘Sir, but cost-cutting is useless if we have no sales growth. We need 
more clients, not non-stop cuts until there is no company left,’ Vroom said, 
after Bakshi had finished his speech. I guess somewhere within him was a die-
hard optimist who really thought Bakshi would listen to him.

‘We have though of every alternative,’ Bakshi said. ‘A sales force is too 

expensive.’

‘Sir, we can create a sales force. We have thousands of agents. I am 
sure some of them are good at sales. We talk to customers every day, so we 
kn0ow what they want…’

‘But our clients are in the US, we have to sell there.’
‘So what? Why don’t we send some agents to the US to try and increase 
our clients base. Why not guys? Vroom said and looked at us, as if we would 
furiously   nod   our   heads   in   approval.   I   was   the   only   one   listening,   but 
remained quiet.

Radhika was doodling on her pad, drawing a pattern that looked like 

this:

Priyanka was making a table of numbers on her notepad. I think she was 
making a calendar to figure out the day she was getting married. I felt like 
ripping her notebook to shreds. Esha was digging her pen’s nib deep into her 
notepad so that it came out at the other end.

‘Send agents to the US? Move them to Boston?’ Bakshi said and laughed.
‘Well a few of them, at least on trial basis. Some of them are really 
smart. Who knows, they may get that one client that could save a hundred 
jobs. Right Shyam?’ Vroom said

‘Huh?’ I said startled to hear my name.
‘Mr Victor, as a feedback-oriented manager I appreciate your inputs. 

However, I do not think it is such a good idea,’ Bakshi said.

‘Why not?’ Vroom demanded with the innocence of a primary school 

kid.

‘Because if it was such a good idea, someone would have thought of it 

before. Why didn’t it strike me for instance?’ Bakshi said.

‘Huh?’ Vroom said, completely flabbergasted. I had heard it all before so 
it did not move me. I was aware of every red, white, and black blood cell in 
Bakshi’s body.

‘What’s the plan sir, when do we find out who gets fir…I mean right-

sized?’ I said. 

’Soon. We are finalizing the list, but we let you know by this morning or 
early tomorrow night,’ Bakshi said, his forehead showing relief as I had not 
challenged him.

‘How many people will lose their job, Sir?’ what percentage?’ Radhika 

said, her first words in the meeting.

‘Thirty to forty is the plan as of now,’ Bakshi said in a practiced, calm 

voice as if he was announcing the temperature outside.

‘That’s hundreds of people<’ Vroom said. As if it was such a difficult 

calculation.

‘Such is corporate life, my friend,’ Bakshi said and got up, indicating 
that the meeting was over. ‘You know what they say. It is a jungle out there.’ 
I don’t know who said that, but when I looked at Bakshi, I realized there are 
buffoons in that jungle as well.

The   girls   collected   their   notebooks   primly   and   stood   up.   Vroom   sat 
there for a few more seconds. He crushed the printout of websites visited by 
Bakshi and put it in his pocket.

‘Thank you, Sir,’ Esha said.
‘You’re welcome. As you know, I am an ever-approachable manager. 

Here or Boston, you can reach me anytime.’

We were at the door when Priyanka asked a question.
‘Sir, are you going to Boston soon/’
Bakshi was back at his desk. He had picked up the telephone but paused 
when he heard Priyanka’s question. ‘Oh yes, I need to tell you about that. Not 
that it’s very important. I am transferring to Boston soon. Maybe in a month 
or so.’

‘Transferring to Boston?’ Vroom, Radhika, Esha, Priyanka and I all spoke 

together.

‘Yes. You see I do not like to blow my own trumpet. But looks like they 
recognized   my   contribution   in   the   value-addition   cycle   of   the   company,’ 
Bakshi said, a smug smile sliming across his shiny face. I though of toppling the 
entire bookshelf on his head.

‘But details will come later. Anyway, if you do not mind, I need to make 

a call. I’ll keep you posted later if we have more news.’

Bakshi signaled us to shut the door as we left. As I closed the door, I felt 
like somehow had slapped my face. In slow motion, we walked away from his 
office.

#25

We returned to WASG after our meeting with Bakshi. Calls flashed on 
the screen, but no one attended to them. I sat at my seat and opened my 
email. I could not read anything as my mind was having a systems overload.

I looked at the time, it was 2.45 a.m.
Vroom sat at his desk and mumbled inaudible courses. He opened the 
internal web page of Connexions on his computer. it had the map of the US on 
it. He held up a pen and tapped at a point on the US east coast. 

‘This, this is Boston,’ he said and clenched his fist tight around the pen. 

‘This is where or boss will be while we are on the road looking for jobs.’

Everyone stayed quiet.
‘Can I ask why everyone is so bloody quiet?’ Vroom said.
‘I think we should start picking up some calls,’ I said started fumbling 

with the controls on the telephone.

‘Like   fuck   we   should,’   Vroom   said   and   jabbed   his   pen   hard   on   the 
monitor. A loud ping startled everyone on the desk. Shattered glass made a 
nine-inch   wide,   spider-web   pattern   on   Vroom’s   monitor.   The   rest   of   his 
screen worked as if nothing had happened.

‘What happened,’ the girls said and came around to Vroom’s computer.
‘Damn it,’ Vroom said and threw his pen hard on the ground. It broke 
into two pieces. Some people break into tears when they are upset. Some 
break whatever is around them.

‘Oh no. the monitor is totally gone,’ Esha said. She put her hand on 

Vroom’s shoulder, ‘Are you okay?’

‘Don’t you dare touch me, you slut,’ Vroom said and pushed her hand 

away.

‘What?’ Esha said. ‘What did you just said?’
‘Nothing.   Just   leave   me   alone,   al   right?   Go   pray   for   your   jobs   or 
whatever. Bloody bitch on her way to becoming a hooker,’ Vroom said and 
moved his chair away from Esha.

For a few seconds the girls stood there, stunned. Then, slowly, they 

walked back to their seats.

audible to us.

well,’ Esha said to Priyanka.

‘What’s wrong with him?’ Priyanka asked Esha in a whisper, which was 

‘I told you he proposed again. Maybe he’s not taking my rejection so 

‘Oh really?’ Vroom shouted and stood up. ‘You think this is about the 
proposal? Like I don not know about your escapades. Everyone here knows it—
Shyam, Radhika and Priyanka. You thought I would not find out? I wish I’d 
known before I proposed to a certified slut who’ll bang for bucks. I feel sick.’

Esha   looked   at   all   of   us,   shocked.   Tears   appeared   in   her   eyes.   She 
started shaking, and Radhika helped her sit down. It is way more elegant to 
cry sitting down than standing up.

Priyanka went up to Vroom’s seat. She stared at him, her face red. Slap! 

She deposited a hard slap across Vroom’s face.

‘Learn how to talk to women you say one more nasty thing and I’ll screw 

your happiness, understand?’ Priyanka said. 

Vroom stared at Priyanka, his hand over his cheek. He was too stunned 
to retaliate. I inserted myself between the two of them. Guys, can we have 
some peace here,’ I said. ‘Things are already quite messed up. Please let’s sit 
down and do some work.’

‘I   can’t   work.   I   don’t   know   if   I’ll   still   have   a   job   in   a   few   hours,’ 

Priyanka said and moved back to her seat. She continued to flare at Vroom.

‘At least sit down,’ I said.
‘I want him to apologize to Esha. The idiot has to watch what he is 

saying,’ Priyanka said.

easy,’ Vroom said.

Esha continued to cry as Radhika tried to console her.
‘What do you care about a job? You are getting married Women have it 

What?   Don’t   you   start   that   with   me   now,’   Priyanka   said.   She   had 
reached her seat but refused to sit down. ‘You think this is easy?’ she pointed 
a finger to Esha and Radhika.

Vroom kept quiet and looked down.
‘Radhika found out her husband is cheating on her. This when she works 
for him and his family day and night. And Esha can’t get a fair break unless 
she sleeps past creepy men. But they are not breaking monitors and shouting 
curses, Vroom. Just because we don’t make a noise doesn’t mean it is easy,’ 
she said, shouting loud enough so you could call it noise.

‘Can we not talk for two minutes. Do not take calls. But at least keep 

quiet,’ I pleaded. 

Esha stopped crying as Radhika gave her a glass of water. Priyanka sat 
down and opened her handmade calendar. Vroom became quiet as he looked 
at the shattered bits of glass on his desk.

The silence gave me a chance to reflect on Bakshi’s meeting. If I lost my 
job, what would I do? Become an agent again? I could probably forget about 
being a team leader.

‘I’m sorry,’ Vroom said.
‘What?’ Esha said.
‘I’m sorry, Esha,’ Vroom said, clearing his throat. ‘I said horrible and 

hurtful things. I was disturbed myself. Please forgive me.’

‘It’s okay Vroom. It only hurts because there is a bit of truth in it,’ Esha 

said with a wry smile.

‘I meant to say those horrible things to myself. Because,’ Vroom said 
and banged two fists simultaneously on the table, ‘because the real hooker is 
me, not you.’

‘What?’ I said.
‘Yes, this salary has hooked me. Every night I come here and let people 
fuck me,’ Vroom said and picked up the telephone headset. ‘The Americans 
fuck me with this, in my ears hundreds of times a night. Bakshi fucks me with 

his management theories, backstabbing and threats to fire us. And the funny 
thing is, I let them do it. For money, for security—I let it happen. Come fuck 
me some more,’ Vroom said and threw the headset on the table. 

‘Do you want water?’ Radhika said and handed him a glass of water.
Vroom took the glass and drank the water in one gulp. I wondered if he 
would throw the empty glass on the floor and shatter it to pieces. Luckily, he 
just banged it on the table.

‘Thanks,’ Vroom said. ‘I needed that. In fact, I need a break. Otherwise 

I’ll go mad. I can’t take this right now.’

‘I need a break too,’ Priyanka said. ‘It’s all right Vroom. Only a few 

more hours left for the shift to get over.’

‘No. I want a break now. I want to go for a drive. C’mon people, let’s all 

go for a drive. I’ll get the Qualis,’ Vroom said and stood up.

‘Now? It is close to 3 a.m.,’ I said.
‘Yes, now. Who gives a damn about the calls? You may not even have a 

job. Get up.’

‘Actually, if someone is going, can you please get some pills for me from 

the 24-hours chemist/’ Radhika said.

‘No,   all   of   us   are   going,’   Vroom   said.   ‘Get   up   Shyam.   If   you   come 

everyone will come.’

‘I’m game,’ Esha said.
‘Okay, I’ll come too. Just for a bit of fresh air,’ Priyanka said. 
I looked at them. Everyone wanted to get out of his or her miseries, if 
only   for   a   few   moments.   I   wanted   to   get   away   from   Bakshi,   Ganesh   and 
Connexions.

‘Okay, we can go. But we have to be back soon,’ I said.
‘Where are we going?’ Esha said, ‘I heard the new lounge bar Bed is 

close by.’

me.

‘No way, we’re just going for a drive…’ I said, but Vroom interrupted 

‘Great idea. We are going to Bed—damn cool place.’
‘I need a real bed to sleep,’ Radhika said and stretched her arms.
All of us got up. We decided to leave individually to prevent suspicions.
‘Get up, Military Uncle,’ Vroom said, as he went to his desk.
‘Huh?’ Uncle said getting up. Normally he would have scoffed at Vroom, 
but I guess he was in too much pain over his son’s email to give a conscious 
reaction.

‘We’re all going for a drive. The others will tell you everything. I’ll get 

the Qualis,’ Vroom said and switched off Uncle’s monitor.

#26

At 3:00 A.M. share we were outside the main entrance of Connexions. A 

white Qualis cam up and halted near us.

‘Get in,’ Vroom said, reaching over to open the doors.
‘It’s so cold. What took you so long,’ Esha said, getting into the front.
‘You try shifting a sound-asleep driver to another Qualis,’ Vroom said.
Radhika, Priyanka and I took the middle row; Military Uncle preferred to 

sit by himself at the back. He looked slightly dazed. May be we all did.

Vroom   drove   prove   past   the   executive   parking   area   as   we   left 

Connexions. We saw Bakshi’s white Mitsubishi Lancer.

‘Bakshi’s got a flash car,’ Esha said.
‘Company paid, or course,’ Priyanka said.
Vroom inched the Qualis forward and stopped close to the lancer. He 

switched on the Qualis headlights. Bakshi’s car shone bright.

‘Can I ask a question? What’s the punishment for running people over? 

Vroom said.

‘Excuse me?’ I said.
‘What is we ran this Qualis over Bakshi? We could do it when he comes 
to pick up his car in the morning. How many years of jail are we talking?’ 
Vroom said.

It was a silly conversation, but Priyanka led him on anyway. 
‘Depends on how the court sees it. If they see it as an accident and not 

as homicide or murder, about to years,’ she said.

Vroom restarted the car and turned towards the exit gates.
‘Two years is not a lot. Can we divide it among the six of us? Four 

months each?’ Vroom said.

‘I don’t know. Ask a lawyer,’ Priyanka shrugged.
‘Four months is like nothing to get rid of Bakshi from this earth,’ Esha 

blew a strand of hair that had fallen against her lips.

‘Just  sixteen  weekends of  sacrifice. Weekdays  are  like  jail anyway,’ 

Vroom said. ‘What say we do it?’

By now we had left the call center and were now on the highway. Apart 
from a few trucks, the roads were empty India has a billion people, but at 
night, ninety-nine percent of them are fast asleep. This land then belongs to a 
chosen few: truck drivers, later shift workers, doctors, hostel staff and call 
center agents.  We, the  nocturnal,  rule  the roads and the  country.  Vroom 
accelerated the Qualis to eighty kilometers and hour.

‘I doubt you can split the punishment. ‘The driver gets the full deal,’ 
Priyanka said, still on the stupid Bakshi-homicide topic, ‘plus if they know it’s 
premeditated, you are talking ten years plus.’

‘Hmmm. Now ten years is a totally different equation. What you say 

Shyam, still not too bad to get rid of Bakshi?’

‘Okay, enough of this stupidity,’ I said. ‘I though you were taking us out 

of for a drink.’

‘I’m just…’ Vroom said, raising one hand from the steering wheel.
‘Shut up and drive. I need a drink,’ I said.
‘Chemist first please. Can we please stop at a chemist,’ Radhika said, 

giving herself a head massage.

We dropped the topic of killing Bakshi. Though if the law allowed me on 
e free murder in my life, I am quite clear who will top the list. No wait, I am 
forgetting my ex-girlfriend’s mom here. I really wouldn’t know whom to kill 
first, that’s the truth. Perhaps the law would see me as a special case and 
allow me two murders.

Vroom   took   a   sharp   right   turn   on   to   a   road   that   led   to   a   24-hours 

chemist.

the other half had migraine.

Radhika was quiet as she waited. I guess Payal occupied half her mind; 

‘There it is,’ Esha said, as we sighted a neon red cross.
‘Trust me. I know this area,’ Vroom said and accelerated the Qualis to a 

hundred. ‘Man, roads and girls are so much more fun at night.’

‘That’s sick,’ Priyanka said.
‘Sorry, couldn’t help it,’ Vroom said and grinned.
Vroom parked the Qualis near the chemist. A sleepy boy, no more than 
seventeen, manned the medicine shop. A few medical entrance exam guides 
lay on the counter in front of him. A fly swatter served the function of a 
bookmark. He looked bored and grateful to see us, more for the company, 
probably, than the business.

Vroom and Radhika got out of the Qualis. I stepped out to stretch my 

legs as well.

counter.

Radhika walked quickly upto the boy.
‘What do you want, Radhika? Saridon?’ Vroom said as we reached the 

‘No,’ she shook her head. Turning to the boy, she said. ‘Three strips of 
Fluoxetine, and five strips each of Sertraline and Paroxetine. Make it fast 
please.’ She began to tap on the counter anxiously. Her reed bangles jingled a 
little.

The boy gaped at Radhika. Then he turned around and started rifling 

through the shelves.

Vroom and I moved a few steps away of escape the smell of medicine. 

Vroom lit a cigarette and we shared a few puffs.

The   boy   returned   with   a   stack   of   tablets   and   placed   them   on   the 
counter. Radhika reached out to grab them, but he put his right hand on top 
of the pile of medicines and slid them away from her. ‘This is pretty strong 
stuff, madam. You have a prescription?’ he asked.

‘It’s three in the morning,’ Radhika said in an irritated voice. ‘I ran out 

of pills at work. Where the hell do you except me to find a prescription?’

‘Sorry madam. Just that sometimes these young kids come here to pick 

up strange medicines before going to discos…’

‘Look   at   me,   Radhika   said,   pointing   to   her   face,   ‘do   I   look   like   a 

teenager in a mood to party?’

No, Radhika did not look like a teenager out to party to me—she looked 
ill, with dark circles under her eyes. I wished the boy would give her the 
medicines soon.

‘But these are still a lot of strong medicines, madam. What do you need 

these for? I mean, what is wrong with you?’ the boy said.

‘Fuck you,’ Radhika said and banged her fist hard on the glass counter. 
The   glass   shook   but   survived   the   impact.   However   two   of   Radhika’s   red 
bangles broke into a million pieces. Shattered bits of bright glass scattered 
along the counter.

The noise scared the boy; he jumped back two steps. Vroom crushed his 

cigarette and we joined them at the counter.

‘Excuse me, madam,’ the boy said.
‘Fuck you. You want to know what is wrong with me? You little punk, 

you want to know what is wrong with me?’

‘What’s up Radhika, everything okay?’ Vroom said.
‘This dumbass wants to know what is wrong with me,’ Radhika said, 
pointing her fingers at the boy. ‘Who the hell is he? What does he know about 
me?’

’Calm down Radhika,’ I said, but she probably did not even hear me. 

That is the story of my life; half the things I say go unnoticed.

‘What does he know about wrong and right? Everything is wrong with 
me you moron—my husband is banging some bitch while I slog my guts out. 
Happy now?’ Radhika said, her face more red than her broken bangles. She 
held her head for a few seconds. Then she removed her hands from her head 
and grabbed the medicines. The boy at the counter did not protest this time.

‘Water. Can I have some water?’ Radhika said.
The boy ran inside his shop returned with a glass of water.
Radhika tore a few pills out of her new stack. One, two, three—I think 

she popped in three of them. Some migraine cure this was, I thought.

‘Four   hundred   sixty   three   rupees,   madam,’   the   boy   said,   his   voice 

‘I am alive because of this stuff. I need it to survive, not to party,’ 

trembling with fear.

Radhika said.

She paid for the medicines and walked back to the Qualis. Vroom and I 

followed a few steps behind her.

‘What medicine is that?’ I said.
‘What the hell do I know? I am no doctor,’ Vroom said.
‘You sure she has a prescription for those/’ I said.
‘Ask her, if you have the guts,’ Vroom said.
‘No way. Let’s get to the lounge bar soon.’
‘Everything   okay?’   Esha   said   as   we   got   into   the   Qualis.   ‘We   heard 

arguments.’

‘Nothing. As Bakshi would say, we just had some communication issues. 

But now, let’s put them to Bed,’ Vroom said and turned the Qualis around.

Radhika put the medicines in her bag. Her face was calmer as the three 

pills started to kick in.

Vroom   pushed   the   Qualis   to   one   hundred   and   ten,   the   maximum   it 

would go without the engine crying for mercy. 

‘Slow down Vroom,’ Esha said.
‘Don’t use the words slow and Vroom in one sentence, Vroom said.
‘Dialogue,’ I said, ‘should we clap/’
  A   truck   stuffed   with   bags   of   hay   loped   past   us   like   an   inelegant 

elephant. Our headlights made the gunny bags glow in the dark.

‘See, even the truck was going faster than us. I am a safe driver,’ Vroom 

‘Sorry guys,’ Radhika said, her voice becoming more normal as the drugs 

took effect. ‘I apologize for creating a scene there.’

‘What did you buy Radhika? Why did the chemist make a fuss?’ I said, 

unable to control my curiosity.

‘Anti-depressants.   Chemists   ask   questions,   as   they’re   prescription 

drugs. But most of the time they don’t care.’

‘Wow! Vroom said. ‘You mean happy drugs like Prozac and stuff.’
‘Yes, Flueoxetine is Prozac. Except it is the Indian version, so a lot 

said.

cheaper.’

‘Like all of us,’ Vroom said and laughed at his own joke.
‘But  it’s dangerous to take it  without medical supervision,’ Priyanka 

said. ‘Isn’t it addictive?’

‘It’s legal addiction. I can’t live without it and, yes, it’s is really bad for 

you. But it is still better than having to face my life,’ Radhika said.

‘Leave it Radhika—they will harm you,’ Military Uncle spoke for the first 

time on our drive.

‘I had cut down, Military Uncle. But sometimes one needs a bigger dose. 

Can everyone please switch to another topic? How far is this Bed?’

‘just two kilometers from here. Ninety seconds if I am driving, a lot 
more his comment, as I preferred for him to keep his eyes on the road. Some 
inebriated truckies drove past as Vroom dodged them. 

‘I heard the Bed is really snooty,’ Priyanka said. ‘I’m not dressed at all.’ 
She adjusted her salwar kameez. I noticed the border of glittering stone-work 
on her dark green chiffon dupatta.

‘You   look   fine,’   Esha   reassured   her,   ‘the   chiffon   look   is   really   in.   I 

should be worried. I look so grungy.’

‘Don’t worry Esha. Anyone with a navel rings to never denied entry in a 

disco,’ Vroom said.

‘Well, if you girls are in doubt, they definitely won’t let in a boring 

housewife like me,’ Radhika said.

‘Don’t   worry.   As   long   as   we’re   ready   to   spend   cash,   we   will   be 

welcome. Plus, the DJ at Bed is my classmate from school,’ Vroom said.

‘All you school classmates have such funky jobs,’ I said.
‘Well, that is the problem. They all have rich dads. I have to work hard 
to match their lifestyle. If only my rich dad didn’t have to leave us,’ Vroom 
said. ‘Anyway guys, welcome to Bed. And courtesy your humble driver, it is 

just 3:23 a.m. He flashed the headlights at a sign. It said ‘Bed Lounge and 
Barr: Your Personal Space’.

‘Oh no, didn’t realize we’re there already,’ Esha said. She fished out a 
mirror from her purse and examined her lips. How did women manage before 
mirror were invented?

‘How is my hair? It is awful as usual?’ Priyanka said to Radhika.
I looked at her long curly hair. Priyanka always said how she had the 
‘most boring fair in the world’, and how could’ do nothing with it’. I felt the 
urge to run my fingers through it just as I had done a hundreds times before. 
But I couldn’t, as someone called Ganesh would be doing it for me in a few 
weeks’ time. The oil for the Mc Donald’s French fries started simmering again 
in my gut. What is the oil they use at McDonald’s anyway? It burns like hell.

‘Your hair is perfect. Anyway, it’ll be dark inside. Let’s go,’ Radhika 

said. ‘C’mon Military Uncle, we’re going inside.’

#27

We followed Vroom to a huge black door, the entrance of Bed. The door 
was painted so that it merged with the wall. An ultra beefy bounder and a 
malnourished woman stood besides it.

‘Are you a member, sir?’ the malnourished woman addressed Vroom. 
She was the hostess (or door-bitch), according to Priyanka) and wore a black 
dress. She was about five feet four inches, but looked way taller because of 
her thin frame and heels the size of a coke bottle.

‘So, we’ve just come for a quick drink,’ Vroom said and took out his 

credit card. ‘Here, you can open the tab on this.’

‘I’m sorry sir, tonight is for members only,’ she said. The beefy bouncer 
looked at us with a black, daft glare. Like Bakshi, he belonged to the non-
human species of mankind.

‘How do you become a member?’ I said.
‘You have to fill a form and pay the annual membership fee of fifty 

thousand,’ the hostess said, as calmly as if she’d asked us for small change.

‘What? Fifty grand for this place in the middle of nowhere?’ Priyanka 
said   and   pointed   her   finger   to   the   door.   She   had   draped   her   dupatta   in 
reverse, in an attempt to look hip.

‘I suggest you go somewhere else then,’ the hostess said. She looked at 

Priyanka scornfully. A fully-clad female is a no-no at disco.

‘Don’t you look at me like that,’ Priyanka said.
‘Hey cool it, Priyanka, Vroom said and turned to the bouncer. ‘What’s 

the deal, dude. Is DJ Jas inside? I know him.’

‘Huh…what…’ the bouncer said with a dumb, nervous expression. It was 

the most challenging question anyone had asked him in months.
‘You know Jas?’ the hostess said, her voice warmer now.
‘School buddy of seven years. Tell him Vroom is here,’ Vroom said.
‘Cool. Why didn’t you tell me that before, Vroom?’ the hostess said and 
gave Vroom a flirtatious smile. She bent over to release the velvet ropes. The 
skeletal structure of her upper torso was visible. If she broke a bone, she 
wouldn’t need an x-ray.

‘Can we go in now/’ Esha asked the hostess with a bored expression.
‘Yes. Though Vroom, next time, please tell you friends to dress up for 

Bed,’ the hostess said and glanced meaningfully at Priyanka and Radhika.

‘I could wring her tiny neck, just like that. One twist and it will snap 

like a chicken bone,’ Priyanka said.

As we were in, the bouncer frisked Vroom and me. I finally understood 

the purpose of his existence. After us, he went towards Priyanka. 

‘What?’ I said to the bouncer.
‘I   need   to   check   this   lady,’   he   said.   ‘She   acts   like   she   could   cause 

trouble.’ He towered over Priyanka, who just froze.

And then, I don’t know how, but the words came to me.
‘You’re not touching her, you understood,’ I said.

The bouncer was startled. He turned to me. He had biceps the size of 
my thighs, and deep inside I shuddered to think how much it would hurt if he 
delivered a punch across my face.

‘What’s up now?’ the hostess came towards us.
‘Nothing, just teach your Tarzan out here how to behave with women,’ I 

said and pulled at Priyanka’s hand. In a second we were inside Bed.

We chose a corner bed, which had two hookahs next to it.
‘Why is the hostess so mean?’ Esha said, as she hoisted herself onto the 
bed.   She   took   two   cushions   to   rest   her   elbows.   ‘Did   you   hear   her?’   “Go 
somewhere else”. Is that how you treat customers?’

‘It’s their job. They’re paid to be mean. It gives the place attitude,’ 
Vroom said carelessly as he lit up a hookah. I looked at the hot, smoldering 
coals and thought of Ganesh. I don’t know why, I though it would be fun to 
drop some down his pants.

‘I want a job that pays me to be mean. All they tell us in the call center 
is “be nice, be polite, be helpful”—being mean is so much more fun,’ Radhika 
said and reclined along a long cushion. For someone who had just had a really 
rough night she looked nice; although I’m not sure anymore can look ugly in 
ultraviolet-candlelight anyway. I wondered how a moron called Anuj could 
leave her.

Only Esha and Radhika got to lie down. The rest of us sat cross-legged 

on the bed.

Vroom went to say hi to DJ Jas, who was playing some incomprehensible 
French-African-Indian fusion music. He returned with twelve kamikaze shots. 
Military Uncle declined, and we didn’t protest as it meant more alcohol for us. 
Vroom took Uncle’s extra shots and drank them in quick succession.

We had barely finished our kamikazes when another thin woman (a Bed 

specialty) came up to us with another six drinks.

‘Long Island ice Teas,’ she said, ‘courtesy DJ Jas.’
‘Nice. You have your friends in the right places,’ Radhika said as she 
started gulping her Long Island like it was a glass of water. When you don’t get 
to drink on a regular basis, you go crazy at the chance.

‘These Long Island are very stiff,’ I said after a few sips, I could feel my 
head spin. ‘Easy guys,’ I said, ‘our shift isn’t over. We said one quick drink, so 
let’s go back soon.’

‘Cool it man. Just one last drink,’ Vroom said as he ordered another set 

of cocktails.

miss you guys.’

‘I am getting high,’ Priyanka said. ‘I’m going to miss this. I am going to 

‘Yeah right. We’ll see when you move to Seattle. Here guys, try this—it 
is apple flavour,’ Vroom said as he took a big drag from the hookah. He passed 
it around, and everyone (except Military Uncle, whose expression was growing 
more   resigned   by   the   minute)   took   turns   smoking   it.   DJ   Jas’s   music   was 
mellow, which went well with the long drags we were taking from the hookah.
There were two flat LCD screens in front of our bed, one tuned to MTV, 
and the other to CNN. A Bollywood item number was being played on MTV, as 

part of its ‘Youth Special’ program. A girl stripped off successive items of her 
clothing as the song progressed. The breaking news on CNN was that the US 
considering going to war with Iraq again. I noticed Vroom staring at thee TV 
showing CNN.

‘Americans are sick,’ Vroom said, as he pointed to a US politician who 
had spoken out in support of the war. ‘Look at him. He would make the whole 
word if he could have his way.’

‘No, not the whole world. I don’t think they’d blow up China,’ Priyanka 

said, sounding high. ‘They need the cheap labor.’

‘Then I guess they won’t blow up Gurgaon either. They need the call 

‘So we are safe,’ Esha said, ‘that’s’ good. Welcome to Gurgaon, the 

centers,’ Radhika said.

safest city on earth.’

The girls started laughing. Even Military Uncle smiled.
‘It’s not funny girls. Our government doesn’t realize this, but Americans 
are   using us.  We  are   sacrificing an  entire  generation   to  service  their  call 
centers,’ Vroom said. Convincing me that one day he could be a politician.

Nobody responded.
‘Don’t you agree/’ Vroom said.
‘Can you please stop this trip…’ I began. As usual, I was put on mute.
‘C’mon Vroom. Call centers are useful to us too,’ Esha said. ‘You know 
how hard it is to make fifteen grand a month outside. And here we are, sitting 
in   an   air-conditioned   office,   talking  on   the   phone,   collecting  our   pay  and 
going home. And it is the same for hundreds and thousands of young people. 
What’s wrong with that?’

‘An air-conditioned sweatshop is still a sweatshop. In fact, it is worse, 
because   nobody   sees  the   sweat.   Nobody   sees  you   brain   getting   rammed,’ 
Vroom said.

‘Then why don’t you quit? Why are you still here?’ I said. I hate it when 

he ruins my high with his high ground.

‘Because I need the money. My friends have a lifestyle that I have to 

keep up with. Money lets me come to places like this,’ Vroom said.

‘It’s just Bakshi. You are worked up about him and now you are blaming 

it on the call center,’ I said.

‘Screw Bakshi, he is not the only bad boss around. C’mon, the whole 
world is being run by a bad, stupid-evil boss,’ he said, pointing to CNN. ‘Look 
at them, scared out of their guys, ready to bomb everyone. Meanwhile, all we 
do it talk on the phone all night. White the world snores away,’ Vroom said. 

‘Stop complaining about working at night. Doctors do it, hotel people do 
it, airplane pilots do it, factory workers—hell, even that does bitch works at 
night,’ Priyanka said.

‘There is nothing wrong with working at night. And I agree the money is 
good. But the difference is, we don’t have jobs that make up work to our 
potential. Look at our country, we are still so behind these Americans. Even 
when we know we are no less than them,’ Vroom said, gesturing wildly at the 
TV screen.

‘So? What other kinds of jobs can there be,’ Esha said with a hairclip in 

her mouth. She had begun the ritual of untying and retying her hair.

‘So like, there is so much to do. We should be building roads, power 
plants, airports, phone networks and metro trains in every city like madness. 
And if the government moves its rear—end and does that, the young people in 
this country will find jobs there. Hell, I would work days and nights for that—
as long as I know that what I am doing is helping build something for my 
country, for its future. But the government doesn’t believe in doing any real 
work, so they allow these BPOs to e opened and think they have taken care of 
the youth. Just a this stupid MTV thinks showing a demanded chick do a dance 
in her underwear will make the program a youth special. Do you think they 
really care?’

‘Who?’ I said. ‘The government or MTV?’ I got up and signaled for the 
check (in bars you always ask for the ‘check’—never the ‘bill’). It was 3:50 
a.m., and I had enough of Vroom’s lecture. I wanted tog get back to the call 
center soon. 

Vroom paid for the bill with his credit card and we promised to split the 

costs later.

‘Both. Both of them don’t give a fuck,’ Vroom said as we left Bed.
The door bitch and the bouncer gave us a puzzled looks we walked out.

#28

Vroom drove us out of Bed and we were soon back on the highway. 

Every now and then the Qualis swayed to the left or right of the road.

‘Careful,’ Esha said, ‘you okay Vroom?’
‘I’m fine. Man, I love driving,’ Vroom said dreamily.
‘I can drive if you…’ I said.
‘I said I’m fine,’ Vroom said in a firm voice. A few minutes later, we 
passed by Sahara Mail, the biggest shopping mall in Gurgaon. Abruptly, Vroom 
brought the Qualis to a halt.

‘I feel nauseous,’ Vroom said I think we were all feeling a little nauseous 

after Vroom’s erratic driving.

you,’ Esha said.

‘Whatever you do, don’t throw up in the Qualis. The driver will kill 

Vroom   rested   his   head   on   the   steering   wheel.   The   horn   blew   loud 

enough to wake up the street dogs.

‘Let’s take a walk Vroom,’ I said and tapped his shoulder. We got out of 

the Qualis.

I made Vroom walk around the perimeter of the Sahara mall. We passed 
by   several   advertising   hoardings   showing   all   kinds   of   people:   a   couple   all 
smiles because they had just bought a toothbrush; a group of friends giggling 
over  their  mobile  phones;  a  family  happily  feeding  their  kid junk food;  a 
young graduate jumping with joy, clutching a credit card; a girl holding seven 
shopping bags and beaming. All the ads had one thing is common. Everyone 
looked incredibly happy.

‘What the hell are they so happy about?’ Vroom said.  ‘Look at that 

toothbrush couple. My mom and dad, they are never that happy.’

‘Just   take   deep   breaths   and   walk   in   a   straight   line   Vroom.   You’re 

drunk,’ I said.

other so much?’

‘I’m fine,’ he said, ‘but mom and dad…Shyam, why do they hate each 

‘Grown ups man, they are way more complicated than we are. Don’t 

even try figuring them out,’ I said.

Vroom stopped walking and straightened up. He told me to pause as 
well, and continued: ‘Think about this. The people who gave birth to me can’t 
stop hating each other enough. What does that tell you about me? Half my 
genes must be fighting with the other half. No wonder I am so fucking messed 
up.’

‘We are all messed up man, let’s go,’ I said and prodded his shoulders.
He walked faster to get a few steps ahead of me.
At the corner of Sahara Mall we passed by a Pizza Hut. It was closed. 
Vroom went up and stood in front of it. I wondered if he had really gone 
crazy; was he expecting pizza at this time?

We stood near the entrance. On our right, there was a thirty-foot wide 
metal hoarding of a cola company. A top Bollywood actress held a drink bottle 

and looked at us with inviting eyes. Like a fizzy drink was all it took to seduce 
her into bed.

 Vroom walked close to the actress’s face.
‘What’s up dude/’ I said.
‘You see her?’ Vroom said, pointing to the actress.
I nodded.
‘There she is, looking at us like she is our best friend. Do you think she 

cares for us?’

‘I don’t know. She is a youth icon man,’ I shrugged my shoulders.
‘Yes, youth icon. This airhead chick is supposed to be out role model. 
Like she knows a fuck about life and gives a fuck about us. All she cares about 
is cash. She doesn’t care about you or me. She just wants you to buy this 
black piss,’ Vroom said, pointing to the cola bottle.

‘Black piss?’ I said and smiled. I sat down on some steps nearby.
‘Do you know how much sugar there is in one of these drinks?’ Vroom 

I shook my head.
‘Eight spoons of sugar in every bottle—and nothing else. And yet, they 

convince us this is important. It isn’t.

Vroom looked around and noticed a pile of bricks. He lifted one and 
threw it hard at the cola hoarding. Bang! It hit the actress’s cheek, creating a 
dimple you would almost think was natural. She still kept smiling.

‘Careful, for fuck’s sake. Let’s go back. Someone will see us and get us 

arrested.’

said.

‘Like I care. Nobody cares,’ Vroom said and staggered towards me. I 
looked at his lanky outline in the streetlights. ‘The government doesn’t care 
for anybody,’ he continued. ‘Even that “youth special” channel, they don’t 
care  either.  They say  youth because  they  want  the  damn  Pizza Huts  and 
Cokes and Pepsis of the world to come and give pizza and coke, we will be 
happy. Like young people don’t have a fucking brain. Tell us what crap to 
have and we’ll have it.’

Vroom sat down in front of the Pizza Hut steps. ‘Shyam,’ he said. ‘I’m 

going to throw up.’

‘Oh no,’ I said and moved three feet way from him.
‘Unnh…’ Vroom said as he threw up. Puke spread around like a 12”-thin 

crust pizza with gross toppings outside the entrance. 

‘’Feeling better/’ I said as I carefully helped him up. Vroom nodded his 

He stood up and jerked his shoulders free from me. He lifted another 
brick. He hurled it high, and with one wide swing smashed it into the Pizza 
hut restaurant. Crash! A window shattered, and bits of glass fell down like a 
beautiful ice fountain. An alarm began to ring.

‘Damn, Vroom have you gone mad?’ let’s get the hell out of here,’ I 

Vroom   was   startled   by   the   alarm   as   well,   and   his   body   sprang   to 

head.

said.

attention.

‘Fuck, let’s run,’ Vroom said and we sprinted towards the Qualis.
‘I thought you liked pizza,’ I said when we reached the Qualis.
‘I like pizza. Damn well I do. I like jeans, mobiles and pizzas. I earn, I 
eat, I buy shit and I die. That is all the fuck there is to Vroom. It is all, bullshit 
man,’ Vroom said, panting and holding his stomach. He didn’t look too good, 
but at least the run seemed to have sobered him down.

‘Seriously dude, can I drive now?’ I said, as Vroom opened the front 

door of the Qualis. He was talking noisy, heavy breaths.

‘No way man,’ Vroom said and pushed me away.
The car jerked ahead as Vroom turned on the ignition while in gear.
‘Are you okay/’ Esha said.
Vroom   nodded   and  raised  his hand  in   apology.  He  waited  for   a  few 
seconds, and then started the engine carefully. He promised to drive slow and 
soon we were on the road again.

‘You   liked   Bed?’   Vroom   said,   more   to   change   the   topic   from   his 

inebriated state.

‘Great place,’ Esha said, ‘just the kind of high I needed. Hey Vroom, 

have you kept any music in the Qualis?’

‘Of course. Let me see,’ Vroom said and shuffled through the glove box. 

He took out a tape and held it up. ‘Musafir lounge?’ he said.

‘Cool,’ Esha and Radhika said.
‘NO,’ Priyanka and I said at the same time.
‘C’mon guys. You two not only hate each other, you hate the same 
things too?’ Vroom said and smiled. He put the tape in and turned on the 
music. A song called Rabba started playing.

We   sat   in   the   same  order   as  before.   Except   this  time  I  sat   next   to 
Priyanka. With every beat of the song, I could feel her body along my entire 
right side, like soft electric sparks. I had the urge to grab her hand again, but 
restrained myself. I opened the window for some fresh air.

‘Don’t open the window,’ Esha said, ‘it is so cold.’
‘Just for a minute,’ I said and let the breeze in.
I focused on the lyrics of the song. The singer spoke of why no beloved 
should ever enter his life. That if one did, she should damn well stay and 
never leave. Somehow the lyrics were too close to heart. However, I was 
more worried about the next song. It was  Mahi Ve—which would bring back 
memories of the 32nd Milestone parking lot.

I saw Priyanka’s face change from the corner of my eye. She looked 

nervous in anticipation too. Yes, this was going to be hard.

‘I love this song,’ Vroom declared, as the song I was dreading filled the 

Qualis.

The lyric hit my ears and I pressed the rewind-and-play button in the 
privacy   of   my   head.   Every   moment   of   32nd  Milestone   replayed   itself.   I 
remembered how Priyanka sat on my lap, stubbed my toe and hit her head on 
the roof. I recalled every little second of her careful, slow and yet amazing 
lovemaking. I missed her breath on my stubble, her eyes when they looked 
into mine, the pleasurable pain when she bit my ears. What is it about music 

that it makes you remember things you prefer to forget? I wished I had got 
promoted. I wished Priyanka had never left me. I wished my world were a 
happier place.

I turned my face to look outside. The breeze felt cold, particularly along 
two lines on my cheeks. I touched my face. Damn, I couldn’t believe I was 
crying.

‘Can we please close the window now? It’s ruining my hair,’ Esha said.
I  slid  the   window   shut.   I  tried   to  keep   my eyes  shut  as  well,   but   I 
couldn’t   as   tears   wanted   to   come   out.   I   didn’t   know   I   was   such   an 
embarrassing wuss.

I looked at Priyanka. Maybe it was my imagination, but her eyes seemed 
wet too. She turned towards me and then quickly looked away. I couldn’t 
bear to meet her eyes right now. And I certainly could not look at that nose.

Vroom pulled out two tissues from the tissue box in front and swung his 

arm back to hand them over to us.

‘What?’ I said.
‘There is rear–view mirror. I can see,’ he said.
‘We all can see,’ Radhika and Esha said together and burst out laughing.
‘You keep driving alright,’ I said. I took the tissue, and on the pretext of 
wiping my nose, wiped my eyes. Priyanka took one and swabbed her eyes as 
well.

Esha reached behind from her seat and rubbed Priyanka’s arm.
‘You guys are funny. Remind me again how you met in college?’ Vroom 

said.

‘Forget it,’ I said.
‘C’mon Shyam, just ell. You guys never told me,’ Radhika said.
‘At the campus fair,’ Priyanka said I spoke at the same time.
I looked at her. We gave each other a formal smile.
‘You tell,’ Priyanka said.
‘No, it’s okay. You say is better,’ I said.
Priyanka sat up straight to tell a story we had told a hundred times, but 

never got tired of repeating.

‘We met at the campus fair in second year. Both of us had stalls. Mine 
was on female empowerment. It showed slides of problems faced by rural 
women in India. Shyam had a video games counter. However, nobody was 
coming to visit either of us—everyone just wanted to go to the food stalls.’

‘Then?’ Esha said, her eyes focused on Priyanka.
Then Shyam and I made a deal that we would visit each other’s stalls six 
times a day. Shyam would come and see slides on hardworking farm, women 
and   female   education   programs.   I   would   go   and   play   Doom   II   on   the 
Playstation at his stall. By the end of the fair I was so good, I could beat him,’ 
Priyanka said.

‘No way,’ I said. ‘I can take you on at Doom II any day.’
‘Well, anyway—so over three days we visited each other’s stalls three 

dozen times. And by the end of it, we felt…’ Priyanka said and paused.

‘What?’ Radhika said.

‘We felt that both the stalls belonged to us. And that as long as we were 
together, we didn’t need anyone else to visit,’ Priyanka said and her voice 
choked up.

My throat already had a lump the size of an orange, and I just nodded to 

keep a straight expression.

We kept silent. I was hoping Priyanka would cry big time now.
‘Well, things change. Life goes on—move on to better things. It is like 

playstation to X-box,’ Vroom said.

I hate Vroom. Just when Priyanka was all mellow, Vroom’s wise words 

brought her back to reality. She composed herself and changed the topic.

‘How far are we?’ Priyanka said.
I looked at my watch.
‘Damn Vroom, it is past 4 a.m. How much further?’
‘Around five kilometers from the call center. I am driving slower now. 

You want  me to drive faster?’

‘No,’ all of us cried.
‘We’re going to get late. Bakshi will flip out,’ I said.
‘I can take a shortcut,’ Vroom said.
‘Shortcut/’ I said.
‘Next   left   there   is   an   un-tarred   road.   It   was   made   for   construction 

projects. It cuts through some fields—saves us about two kilometers.’

‘Is the road lit up?’ Esha said.
‘No, but we have headlights. I’ve used that way before. Let’s take it,’ 

Vroom said.

Vroom took a sharp left after a kilometer.
‘Ouch,’ Esha said, ‘you didn’t tell us this road will be so bumpy.’
‘Just a few minutes,’ Vroom said. ‘actually the ground is wet today from 

the rains yesterday. That is why the ride is not smooth.’

We plunged on into the darkness, even as the headlights tried hard to 
show us the way. We passed fields and construction sites filled with materials 
like cement, bricks and iron rods. In a few places, there were deep holes, at 
builders constructed the foundation for super-high rise apartments. I think 
the whole of Delhi had decided to move to Gurgaon, and people were growing 
homes along with the crops.

‘There, just one final cut and we are back on the highway,’ Vroom said 

taking a sharp right.

inclined path.

Suddenly   the   Qualis   skidded.   The   vehicle   rattled   and   slid   down   an 

‘Careful,’ everyone shouted and held on to anything that they could 
find around them. The Qualis went off the road into a slushy downhill patch. 
Vroom desperately tried to control the steering but the wheels couldn’t grip 
the ground. Like a drunk tramp, the Qualis staggered down and into the site 
of a high-rise construction project.

#29

The slope ended but the Qualis still kept rolling forward. It slowed down 
as it slid onto a mesh of iron construction rods. Vroom braked hard, and the 
Qualis halted on the rods with a metallic clang, bounced twice and came to a 
stop.

‘Damn,’ Vroom said.
Everyone sat in shocked silence.
‘Don’t   worry   guys,’   vroom   said   and   started   the   ignition.   The   Qualis 

shook with wild vibrations.

‘Shut…the…ignition…Vroom…’ I said. I looked under the Qualis. There 

was a floor of iron below us that was trembling violently.

Vroom’s hands trembled too as he turned the engine off. I think my 

remaining alcohol in his body had evaporated in seconds.

‘Where are we?’ Esha said and opened the window. She looked out and 

screamed, ‘Oh no!’

‘What?’ I said and looked out again. This time I looked around more 
carefully. What I saw was scary: we had landed in the foundation hole of a 
building, which had a frame of exposed metal rods covering it. The foundation 
was a pit, probably fifty-feet deep and had a frame of reinforced cement 
concrete rods above it. The rods were parallel to the Qualis and jutting out at 
the other end—and they were all that supported us. Every time we moved, 
the   Qualis   bounced,   as   the   rods   acted   as   springs.   I   could   see   fear   in 
everyone’s face, including Military Uncle’s.

‘We’re   hanging   above   a   hole,   supported   only   by   toothpicks.   We’re 

screwed,’ Radhika said, summing up the situation for all of us.

‘What are we going to do?’ Esha said. The contagious panic in her voice 

made everyone nervous.

‘Whatever you do, don’t move,’ Vroom said.
A few minutes passed. The heavy breathing of six people was the only 

‘Should we call for help? The police? Fire brigade? Call center?’ Esha 

said as she took out her mobile phone from her bag.

Vroom nodded. His face had the nakedness of fear.
‘Damn, no reception,’ Esha said. ‘Does anyone else have a mobile that 

sound.

works?’

Priyanka and Radhika’s cell phones did not work as well. Military Uncle 

didn’t have a mobile. Vroom took out his phone. 

‘No network,’ he said.
I took out my phone from my pocket and gave it to Esha. 
‘Your phone is also not working, Shyam,’ Esha said and placed it on the 

dashboard.

‘So we can’t reach anyone in this world?’ Radhika said.
A rod snapped under us. The Qualis tilted a few degrees to the right. 
Radhika fell towards me; Vroom held the steering wheel tight to keep his 

balance. He froze in the driver’s seat, unable to think of what else to do. 
Another rod snapped, and then another like feeble twigs under us. The Qualis 
tilted around thirty degrees and came to a halt.

All of us were too scared to scream.
‘Dows anyone have any ideas?’ Vroom said.
I closed my eyes for a second. I visualized my death. My life could end, 
just like this in oblivion. I wondered when and how people wound find us. May 
be labors tomorrow or even after a couple of days.

‘Six   irresponsible   agents  found   dead,   alcohol  in   body’   would   be   the 

‘Try to open the door, Vroom,’ Military Uncle said.
Vroom   opened   his   door.   The   Qualis   wobbled   and   Vroom   shut   it 

headline.

immediately.

feet behind us.

‘Can’t, Vroom said. ‘Messes up the balance. And what’s the point? We 

can’t step out, we would fall right through.’

I turned around to look out from rear window. I noticed bushes a few 

‘Move   towards   the   left.   No   weight   on   the   right.   We   have   to   stay 

balanced until someone spots us in the morning,’ Vroom said.

I checked my watch. It was only 4:14 a.m. Morning was three hours 

away. A lifetime. And people could show up even later.

‘Otherwise?’ Esha said.
‘Otherwise we die,’ Vroom said.
We stayed quiet for a minute.
‘Everyone dies on day,’ I said, just to break the silence.
‘Maybe it is simpler this way. Just end life rather than deal with it,’ 

Vroom said.

I nodded. I was nervous and I was glad Vroom was making small talk.
‘My main question is– what if no one finds us even after we die. What 

happens then?’ Vroom said.

Channel,’ I said.

‘The   vultures   will   find   us.   They   always   do.   I   saw   it   on   Discovery 

‘See, that makes me uncomfortable. I don’t like the idea of sharp beaks 
rearing my muscles, cracking my bones and ripping me to shreds. Plus, my 
body will be smelling like hell. I’d rather be burnt in a dignified manner and 
go up in that one last ultimate puff of smoke.’

‘Can you guys stop this nonsense? At least be silent,’ Esha said and 

folded her arms.

Vroom smiled at her. Then he turned to me. “I don’t thinking Esha will 
smell too much. Her Calvin Klein perfume will keep her carcass fresh for 
days.’

Beneath us, there were two sharp ‘pings’ as two more rods snapped.
‘Oh no,’ Priyanka said we heard another ping right below her. A flicker 

of light appeared at the dashboard.

Everyone sprang to attention as my cell phone began vibrating.
‘That’s my phone,’ I said.

The phone started ringing. Everyone’s mouth hung open.
‘How did this ring without a network?’ Esha said, her voice nervous.
‘Who is it,’ Radhika said.
‘Pick it up,’ I said with my hand stretched out, unable to reach the 

dashboard and unwilling to move too much.

Esha lifted the phone. She looked at the screen and gasped.
‘Who is it?’ I said.
‘Do you know someone called…God? It says…Good calling,’ Esha said.

#30

Esha’s fingers trembled.   She   pressed   the   button  to  take   the   call   on 

‘Hi everyone. Sorry to call so late,’ a cheerful voice came from the 

speaker mode.

phone.

‘Err. Who is it?’ Esha said.
‘It’s God,’ the voice said.
‘God? God as in…’ Radhika said as all of us looked at the brightly-lit 

‘As in God. I noticed an unusual situation here, so I thought I would just 

phone in fright.

check on you guys.’

‘Who is this? Is this a joke/’ Vroom asked in a stronger voice.
‘Why? Am I being funny? I just said I am God,’ the voice said.
I narrowed my eyes. Apart from the fact that God using a cell phone was 

unusual, I never thought my life was important enough for God to call me.

‘God doesn’t normally call. Prove that you are God. Otherwise, can you 

please get us some help,’ Vroom said.

‘How do I prove I am God? Do I make this cell phone float? Or do I create 
rain and lightning on demand? Or do you prefer magic tickets? Special effects 
maybe?’ God said.

‘Well, I don’t know. But yeah, something like that,’ Vroom said.
‘So, to impress you I have to break the same laws of physics that I 
made? I’m not into that these days. And I have plenty of believers. I thought I 
could help, but I can hand up. See you then…’ God said.

‘No, no wait. Do help us…G…God,’ Esha said and turned slightly so she so 

could hold the cell phone between all of us.

Radhika put a finger on her lips to signal Vroom to be quiet. ‘Okay, I’ll 

stay,’ God said in a cheerful voice. ‘Tell me, how is it going?’

‘Help us get out. A few more rods break and we are going to die,’ I said.
‘Not that, how is it going otherwise? How is life?’ God said.
  I am really bad at tough, open-ended questions like that. I hate to 

admit the extent to which my life is screwed up.

‘but right now we’re trapped…’ I said and God interrupted me.
‘Don’t worry. The Qualis isn’t going anywhere. Just relax.’
I let out a deep sigh. Everyone was silent.
‘So   back   to   the   question,   how   is   life   going?   You   want   to   go   first, 

Radhika?’ God said.

miserable,’ Radhika said.

about it.’

‘You   are   God.   Obviously   you   must   already   know   everything.   Life   is 

‘Actually, I  do  know,’ God said. ‘I just want to find out how you feel 

‘I’ll  tell you  hoe  we  feel.  Life  suc…sorry,’  Vroom  said,  and  checked 
himself, ‘It’s awful. Like what did we do wrong? Why is our life in the pits—
literally and figuratively? That pretty much sums it up for all of us I think.’

Everyone made concurring sounds. God sighed.
‘Let me ask you a question. How many phone calls do you take every 

day?’ God said.

‘A hundred, on busy days two hundred,’ Vroom said.
‘Okay. Now do you know which is the most important call in the world?’
‘No,’ Vroom said. Everyone else shook their heads.
‘The inner call,’ God said.
‘The inner call?’ everyone said in unison.
‘Yes, the little voice inside that wants to take to you. But you can only 
hear it when you are at peace and then too it is hard to hard to hear it. 
Because in modern life, the networks are too busy. The voice tells you what 
you really want. Do you know what I am talking about?’

‘Sort of,’ Priyanka said, her eyes darting away from the phone.
‘That voice is mine, God said.
‘Really?’ Esha said, her mouth wide open.
‘Yes. And the voice is easy to ignore—because you are distracted or busy 
or just too comfortable in life. Go on, ignore it—until you get tangled in your 
own web of comfort. And then you reach a point like today, where life brings 
you to a dead end, and there is nothing ahead but a dark hole.’

‘You’re making sense. I didn’t get it all, but you are making sense,’ I 

‘I know that voice. But it isn’t subtle in me. Sometimes it shouts and 

conceded, more to myself.

bites me,’ Vroom said.

‘And what does the voice say, Vroom?’ God said.
‘That I should not have taken up a job just for money. Call centers pay 
more, but only because the exchange rate is in the favor of Americans. They 
toss their loose change at us. It seems like a lot in rupees. But jobs that pay 
less could be better. There could be jobs that define me, make me learn of 
help my country. I justified it by saying money is progress. But it is not true. 
Progress is building something lasting for the future,’ Vroom said, something 
as if there was a lump in his throat. He pressed his face into his hands.

Esha put her hand on Vroom’s shoulder.
‘C’mon   guys.   This   is   getting   way   too   sentimental.   You   can   do   a   lot 

better than this. You are all capable people,’ God said.

It was the first time someone was using the word ‘capable’ to describe 

‘We can?’ I said.
‘Of course. Listen, I will make a deal with you. I will save your life 
tonight, but in return, you give me something. You close your eyes for three 
minutes. Think about what you really want and what you need to change in 
your life to get it. Then, once you get out of here, act on those changes. You 
do this, and I will help you get out of this pit. Deal?’

‘Deal,’  I said.  Like   you   won’t  do   a deal  that   saves you  from   death. 

Everyone nodded.

We closed our eyes and took a few deep breaths.

me.

Man, I tell you, closing your eyes for three minutes and not thinking 
about the world is the hardest thing to do. I tried to concentrate, but all I 
could see was commotion. Priyanka, Bakshi, my promotion and Ganesh—my 
mind kept jumping from one topic to another.

‘So, tell me,’ God said after three minutes.
We opened our eyes. Everyone’s face was a lot calmer.
‘Ready?’ God said.
Everyone nodded their heads.
‘Let’s go around the Qualis one by one. Vroom, you first,’ God said.
‘I want to have a life with meaning, even if it means a life without Bed 
or daily trips to Pizza-Hut. I need to quit this call center. Sorry, but calling is 
not my calling,’ Vroom said.

I thought his last line was quite clever, but it wasn’t the right time to 

appreciate verbal tricks.

‘What else, Shyam/’ God said, interrupting me.
‘Uh, nothing,’ I said.

Priyanka spoke after Vroom. My ears become extra alert.
‘I  want   my  mother   to   be   happy.   But   I   cannot   kill   myself  for   it.   My 
mother needs to realize a family is a great support to have, but ultimately, 
she is responsible for her own happiness. My focus should be on my own life 
and what I want,’ Priyanka said. I wished she had said my name somewhere in 
her answer, but o such luck. I think ninety percent of Priyanka. And then he 
spoke the most I have heard him speak ever.

‘I want to be with my son and my grandson. I miss them every moment. 
Two years ago, I used to live with them. But my daughter-in-law did things I 
didn’t like—she  went  for parties,  got a job when  I wanted her to stay at 
home…. If fought with them and moved out. But I was wrong. It Is their life, 
and I have no right to judge them by my outdated values. And I need to get rid 
of my inflated ego and go to the US to see them and talk it out.’

Radhika’s turn came next. She fought back her tears as she spoke. ‘I 
want be myself again, just like I was before marriage, when I was with my 
parents. I want to divorce Anuj. I don’t want to ever look at my mother-in-
law’s face again. To do this, I have to accept that I made a wrong decision 
when I married Anuj.’

Esha spoke after Radhika. ‘I want my parents to love me again. I do not 
want to become a dumb model. I am sure I can find a better use for my looks, 
if they are worth anything. Any career that makes you compromise on your 
morals, or judges you because you are not an inch taller is not worth it.’

People now turned to look at me, as I was the only one left to speak.
‘Me? Can I pass?’ I said.
Everyone gave me an even harder state. Sometimes you have no choice 

but to share you weird thoughts with the world.

‘Okay.  This will sound stupid, but I want to take  a shot  at  my own 
business. I had this idea, if Vroom and I collaborate, we can set up a small 
web design company. That is all. But it may never work, because most of the 
things I do never work, but then…’

over me,’ I said.

shock at my firmness.

Priyanka looked at me and became silent. I could see she was in mild 

I continued. ‘But one day I’d like to be worthy of someone like her—
someone intelligent, witty, sensitive and fun, someone who can seamlessly 
merge friendship with love. And yes, one day I want to be successful too.’

We had all finished our turns. God stayed silent.
‘God? Say something, now that we’ve poured out our deepest secrets to 

you,’ Esha said.

‘Shyam, you are not done. You know that,’ God said.
I guess you can’t outsmart God. I just had to come to the point. I looked 

around and spoke again.

‘And I want to be worthy of someone like Priyanka one day, I do not 

deserve her as of today, and I accept that…’
‘Shyam, I never said…’ Priyanka said.
‘Please, let me finish Priyanka. It is about time people stop trampling all 

‘I don’t really have to say anything. I am just amazed—and pleased—at 
how well you have done. Knowing what you want is already a great start. 
Ready to follow it through/’ God said.

Everyone nodded except me.
‘Ready, Shyam?’ God said.
 I gave a small nod.
‘Shyam, can I say something personal before your friends,’ God said, 

‘because it is important for everyone as well.’

‘Sure,’ I said. Yeah, use me as Exhibit I for ‘how not to live your life’. At 

least I am of some use.

‘You want to be successful right?’ God said.
‘Yes,’ I said.
‘There are four things a person needs for success. I will tell you the two 
obvious ones first. One, a medium amount of intelligence, and two, a bit of 
imagination. Agreed?’

‘Agreed,’ everyone said.
‘And all of you have those qualities,’ God said.
‘What’s that?’ I said.
‘Self-confidence.   The   third   thing   you   need   for   success   is   self-
confidence. But Shyam has lost it. He is hundred percent convicted he is good 
for nothing.’

I hung my head.
‘You know how you became convicted?’ God said.
‘How?’ I said.
‘Because of Bakshi. A bad boss is like a disease of the soul. If you have 
one for long enough, you get convicted something is wrong with you. Even 
though you know Bakshi is the real loser, you start doubting yourself. And 
that is when your confidence goes.’

God’s   words   shook   my   insides   like   the   vibrating   Qualis   had   a   few 

minutes ago.

‘God, I want to get my confident back,’ I said.
‘Good. Don’t be scared and you will get it back. And then thee won’t be 

any stopping you,’ God said.

I felt the blood rush to my ears. My heart was beating hard and I wanted 
to be back at the call center. At the same time, anger surged in me as I 
thought of Bakshi. I wanted to get even with the man who had killed a part of 
me, who had put everyone’s job on the line, who had ruined the call center.

‘What’s the fourth ingredient for success?’ Vroom said.
The fourth ingredient is the most painful one. And it is something all of 
you still need to learn. Because it is often the most important thing,’ God 
said.

‘What/’ I said.
‘Failure,’ God said.
‘What? I thought you were talking about success,’ Vroom said.
‘Yes, but to be really successful, you must face failure. You have to 

experience it, feel it, taste it, softer it. Only then can you shine,’ God said.

‘Why?’   Priyanka   said.   Obviously   she   was   focused   on   my   personality 
dissection as well. I tell you, Ganesh may have the Lexus, but she will never 
find as interesting a psycho case as me. 

‘For once you taste failure, you have no fear. You can take risks more 
easily. Then you don’t want to snuggle in your comfort zone anymore—you 
are ready to fly. And success is about flying, not snuggling,’ God said.

‘Point, ‘ Priyanka said.
‘So, here is a secret. Never be afraid of failure. If it has come your way, 

it means I want to give you a real shot at being successful later,’ God said.

‘Cool,’ Priyanka said.
‘Thank you,’ God said.
‘If only you had given India as much as America,’ Vroom said.
‘Why, you don’t like India/’ God said.
‘Of course not. Just because India is poor doesn’t mean you stop loving 

it. It is mine. But still, America has a lot,’ Vroom said.

‘Well, don’t be so high on America. Americans may have many things, 
but they are not the happiest people on earth by any stretch. Any country 
obsessed with war can’t be happy,’ God said.

‘True,’ Radhika said.
‘And many of them have serious issues in the head. Issues only call 
center agents know about. And you can use them to save your call center 
tonight,’ God said.

‘The messed up heads of Americans will save our call center? Vroom, 

Radhika and I spoke together.

‘Yes. Think about their weak spots, and then you can win,’ God said.
‘Like what/ they are fat, loud, thick and divorce all the time?’ Esha said.
‘There   are   more.   I   will   give   you   a   hint.   What’s   behind   all   this   war 

‘Fear. It is obvious, they are the most scared and paranoid people on 

sentiment?’ God said.

earth,’ I said.

‘We’ll scare them into calling us. Yes, that will get us back our call 

volumes,’ Vroom said, his voice excited.

‘Now you are thinking. In fact, you can figure out a way to get even with 
Bakshi too. Not completely fair and square, but by now you deserve to bend a 
few rules in the game,’ God said, and I though I heard a chuckle.

Everyone smiled.
‘Really, we can teach Bakshi a lesson/’ I said.
‘sure, remember Bakshi is not your boss, the ultimate boss is me. And I 

am with you. So what you afraid of?’ God said.

‘Excuse me, but you are not there with us always. Or how did we end 

up here?’ Radhika said.

God sighed before speaking again. ‘I think you need to understand how 
my system works. You see, I have a contract with all human beings. You do 
your best, and every now and then, I will come behind to give you a bonus 
push. But is has to begin with you. For otherwise I can’t distinguish who needs 
my help most.’

‘Point,’ Vroom said.
‘So, if I listen to my inner call and promise to do my best, will you be 

there for me?’ I said.

God said.

‘Absolutely. But, I have to go now. Someone else needs no reach me,’ 

‘Wait! Hel us get us out of this pit first,’ Esha said.
‘Oh yes, of course. I have to help you out of this pit,’ God said. ‘Okay, 
Vroom, you are balancing on a few rods now. There are two tricks to get out 
from such a situation.’

‘What’s that/’
‘One, remember the reverse gear. And two, make friends with the rods
—do not fight them. Use the rod as rail tracks and the rods will guise you out. 
Shake things around, and you will fall right through.’

Vroom stuck his neck out of the window. ‘But these steel construction 

rods are as thin s my fingers. How do we bunch them up?’

‘Tie then,’ God said.
‘How?’ Vroom said.
‘Do I need to tell you everything?’ God said.
‘Dupatta. Use my dupatta,’ Priyanka said.
‘Here, I have this half kn9itted scarf in my handbag too,’ Radhika said.
‘I think you can take from here. Bye now. Remember, I am inside you 

when you need me,’ God said.

‘Huh?’ Vroom said and looked at the phone.
‘Bye God,’ the girls said one after the other.
‘Bye everyone,’ God said and disconnected the call. I waved the phone 

goodbye in reflex. Silence fell on us.

‘What. Was. That?’ Priyanka said.
‘I don’t know. Can I have the dupattas please,’ Vroom said. ‘Military 
Uncle, can you open the rear door and tie up the rods under the wheel. Tear 
up the dupatta if you want to.’

Priyanka flinched for a second at the last line, but that was the last we 
saw of her dupatta and Radhika’s half-scarf. Vroom and Military Uncle tied up 
the rods right under the wheel for the Qualis to do its ten-foot journey to 
reach firm ground. Several times they bent over deep and had to look right 
into the pit. I was glad I was not the one doing it—I would have died just from 
the view.

‘Okay   people,’   Vroom   sat   back   on  the   seat,  wiping   his  hands,  ‘hold 

tight.’

glove box.

started quivering again.

Vroom started the ignition. The Qualis vibrated, as the rods below us 

‘Vrr...oom…I am…sl…ipp..ing,’ Esha said, trying to grip the handle of the 

In a nanosecond, Vroom put the Qualis in reverse and drove back. All of 

us ducked down, partially so Vroom could see, but mostly in feat.

The Qualis shook as if It was rumbling down a hill. However, we did not 
fall. My upper and lower jaws chattered so hard that I thought a couple of 
teeth would break loose.

In six second, it was all over. We were out of the pit and on the slushy 

mud road again.

around. ‘Did anyone survive?’

‘It’s done. I think I am alive,’ Vroom said with a grin of relief. He turned 

#31

Everyone released their breaths together. The girls broke into hugs, and 
Vroom reached out and backslapped me so hard I thought I would die of a 
broken spinal cord.

Vroom   took   a   U-turn   and   drove   back   slowly   in   first   gear   until   we 

‘We made it,’ Esha said and wiped her tears. Priyanka folded her hands 

reached the highway.

and prayed a few times.

‘I thought we would die,’ Radhika said.
‘What was that call?’ Esha said.
‘Something very strange—van we make a pact to not talk about it?’ I 
said. Everyone nodded, as if I had said exactly what was on their mind. It was 
true. The call felt so personal, I did not want to discus it anymore.

‘Whatever it was, we are okay now. And we shall be in office soon,’ 

Priyanka said.

‘It’s still only 4:40. We are just two kilometers away,’ Vroom said. He 

soon regained his confidence and began driving at sixty an hour.

‘I’m just lucky to be alive, I don’t care when we reach,’ Esha said.
‘I do want to reach soon and find out about the layoffs. However, I’m 

quitting in any case,’ Vroom said.

‘Yes, enough’s enough,’ Vroom said.
‘I   don’t   know   long-term—maybe   get   back   to   journalism.   But   as   an 
immediate short-term goal, I’m going to try and save the call center,’ Vroom 
said.

‘With you?’ Vroom said, looking back at me.
‘I’m quitting too,’ I said.
‘Really?’ Priyanka’s eyes popped open. She looked at me as if a seven-

year-old had just announced his decision to climb Mt. Everest. 

‘Yes, I came close to death in that pit. I could have died there, with 
having tried nothing in life. I am tired of soft, comfortable options. It is time 
to face the real world, even if it is harder and painful. I’d rather fly and 
crash, than just snuggle and sleep.’

Everyone nodded. I was shocked; people were really listening to me for 

the first time.

‘Plus, I have made one more promise to myself,’ I said.
‘What?’ Vroom and Priyanka said together.
‘That I am not going to work for an idiot anymore, anywhere. Even if it 
means less money. I cold skip a meal a day and sleep hungry, but, hell, I can’t 
spend my life working for a moron.’

‘Not   bad,’   Vroom   said,   ‘looks   like   our   team   leader-in-waiting   just 

became wiser.’

‘I don’t know if it is wise or note, but at least I have made a choice. We 

will see what happens. For now, I have a short-term goal too.’

‘Like what,’ Vroom said, as he drove with utmost concentration, ‘don’t 

tell me it is call documentation and all.’ 

‘No. I have to take care of Bakshi too. Since we have nothing to lose, 

let’s teach him a lesson,’ I said.

Vroom screeched the Qualis to a halt and we all fell forward.
‘Now what?’ I said.
‘Wait. I just had an Eureka moment. I have an idea for fixing Bakshi and 

the call center,’ Vroom said.

‘What?’
‘Aha, I like it,’ Vroom said and smiled to himself.
‘What, damn it,’ I said.
He leaned back and whispered something in my ear.
‘No way, I mean how/’ I said.
‘Yes way, I mean how?’ I said.
‘Yes way, I’ll tell you how when we get back. Let’s meet in the WASG 
conference room,’ he said and pressed the accelerator hard as we made the 
final stretch to reach the call center. We entered the Connexions main gate at 
4:45 a.m. We passed Bakshi’s car again.

‘Want to bump it. Should we give it a nasty dent?’ I said to Vroom.
‘The thought crossed my mind,’ Vroom said and let out a sigh, ‘but I 
love all automobiles too much to hurt them. This Lancer is already suffering 
under Bakshi. Don’t worry, we will deal with him inside.

Vroom took the Qualis to the parking lot. Our driver was sleeping in 
another vehicle, so we quietly parked the Qualis next to him. We wanted to 
give him a few more hours of rest before he saw his mud-coated vehicle.

‘People, let’s go, 4:46,’ Vroom said and jumped out of the car.
At our desk, I saw an A4-sized sheet stuck on my monitor with big bold 

letters scrawled on it.

‘Check this out,’ I said . It was Bakshi’s writing.
WHERE IS EVERYONE? PLEASE CALL/REPORT TO MY OFFICE 
ASAP. WHERE ARE MY BOARD MEETING AGENDA COPIES? 
WHAT   HAPPENED   TO   THE   XEROX   MACHINE?   AGENT 
VICTOR’S MONITOR?

Vroom   looked   at   the   notice   and   laughed.   ‘Whatever.   He’ll   get   hi 
answers. But first, he will answer us. Guys, conference room first,’ vroom 
said.

We went inside the conference room and Vroom bolted the door.
‘Guys, sorry to sound like the MBA types, but I think in the next few 
hours we have a three-point agenda. One, to save this call center. And two, to 
teach Bakshi a lesson. Agreed?’ 

‘What’s the third point?’ Radhika said.
‘That’s between me and Shyam. It’s private. Okay, listen…’
And that is where Vroom revealed his plan to a) save the call center and 
b) take care of Bakshi. All of us jumped in our seats when we first heard it. 

Slowly,  Vroom  convinced us. Between laughter and intense concentration, 
everyone pooled in to refine the plan further. We concluded our meeting at 
5:100 a.m. and came out of the WASG conference room.

‘All set?’ Vroom said.
‘Of course,’ all of us said in unison.
‘Good. Step 1: Getting Bakshi out of his office,’ Vroom said. ‘Esha, you 

‘Yes,’ Esha said and winked at us.
She picked up the phone, dialed Bakshi’s number and took on the voice 

ready?’

of an older woman.

‘Sir, this is Elina calling from the main bay. Sir, there is a call for you 

from Boston I think,’ Esha said. In a dumb-but-conscientious secretarial tone.

‘No sir, I can’t seem to transfer it… Sir, I tried that, but the line does 
not go through… Sir, I am a new assistant here, so I still do not know how the 
phones work… Sir, sorry but can you come down sir… Yes sir,’ Esha said and 
hung up the phone.

‘Worked?’ I said.
‘Total sucker for anything Boston. He is coming right now. But he’ll only 

be out for a few minutes, so let’s rush.’

#32

As expected, Bakshi’s office was empty when we got there. Vroom went 

straight to Bakshi’s computer and opened his email.

Radhika, Priyanka and I sat as Bakshi’s conference table.
‘Hurry,’ Radhika said and kept one eye on the door.
‘Just one more minute,’ Vroom said as he furiously typed on Bakshi’s 

keyboard.

I know what we were doing was wrong, but somehow doing this wrong 
thing was not associated with ‘real, hard, painful guilt,’ as Esha had put it. In 
fact,  it  felt  good.  Once he  had finished,  Vroom  printed several copies on 
Bakshi’s printer.

‘Five copies,’ he said, ‘one for each of us. Fold it and keep is safe.’
I folded my copy and put in my shirt pocket.
Bakshi arrived twenty seconds later.
‘Can’t believe we have such outdated telephone systems,’ Bakshi was 
talking to himself as he came into his office. He noticed us at the conference 
table.

‘There you guys are. Where were all of you? And what happened to the 
Xerox machine and agent Victor’s monitor?’ Bakshi said. He wrapped his arms 
around like middle and looked at each of us in quick succession.

‘Sit down for a second, will you Bakshi?’ Vroom said, patting a chair 

‘What/’ Bakshi said, shocked at Vroom referring to him by his name. You 

should learn how to address seniors…’

‘Whatever Bakshi,’ Vroom said and put his feet up on Bakshi’s meeting 

next to him.

table.

‘Agent Victor, what did you say and what exactly do you think you are 

doing/’ Bakshi said, still standing.

‘Ahh’ Vroom said, ‘this is so much more comfortable. Why don’t people 

always sit like this?’ Vroom crossed his legs on the table.

‘I can’t believe you are misbehaving in times when I have to recommend 

rightsizing…’ Bakshi said as Vroom interrupted him again.

‘You are mega fucked Bakshi..’ Vroom interrupted him.
‘Excuse me/ what did you just say Agent Victor?’
‘So you are not only dumb, but deaf too. Didn’t you hear him?’ Esha 

said, trying hard to suppress a smile.

‘What the hell is going on here?’ Bakshi said and looked at me blankly 

like I was a renowned interpreter of nonsense. 
Vroom pushed a printout towards Bakshi.
‘What’s this?’ Bakshi said.
‘Read it. They taught you how to read in the MBA course, right?’ Vroom 

said.

The email read as follows:

From: Subhash Bakshi 
To: Esha Singh
Sent: 5.04 am
Subject: Just one night
Dear Esha,
Don’t be upset. My offer is simple-just spend one night with 
me. You make ma happy –I’ll save your you from the right-
sizing. My pleasure for you security–I think it is a fair deal. 
And who knows, you might enjoy it too. Let me know your 
decision soon.
Your admirer.
Bakshi.

Bakshi’s face turned white. His mouth opened five inches wide as he re-

read the email several times.

‘What is this? What the hell is this?’ Bakshi said, his hands trembling as 
much as his voice. His mouth was still open and vibrated like it was battery 
operated.

‘You tell us. It is a mail from your inbox, dumb ass,’ Vroom said.
But I never wrote it,’ Bakshi said, unable to hide a hint of desperation in 

voice, ‘I never wrote it.’

‘Really?’ Vroom said as he lit a cigarette. ‘Now how can you prove you 
didn’t write it? Can you prove it to people in the Boston office that you didn’t 
write it?’

‘What are you talking about? How is the connected to Boston?’ Bakshi 

said, his face sprouting droplets of sweat through the oilfields.

‘Let’s see.   What is we forward Boston a copy of this mail? The same 
people who you copied on the website manual? I am sure they love employees 
who do, well, fair deals,’ I said.

‘I never wrote it,’ Bakshi said, unable to think of better lines.
‘Or we could send a copy to the police,’ Vroom said as he blew a huge 
puff of smoke on Bakshi’s face, ‘and to some of my reporter friends. You want 
to be in the papers tomorrow Bakshi? Here is your chance,’ Vroom took out 
his phone, ‘Oh wait, maybe I can even get you on TV.’

‘TV?’ Bakshi said.
‘Yes, imagine the headline: ‘Call center boss asks girls for sexual favors 
in exchange for job’. NDTV could live on that for a week. Damn, I know I could 
be a good journalist,’ Vroom said and laughed.

‘But what did it do?’ Bakshi said and ran to his desk. He opened his 

email and checked the ‘Sent Items’ folder.

‘Who wrote this?’ Bakshi said and ran to his desk. He opened his email 

and check the ‘Sent Items” folder.

‘Who wrote this?’ Bakshi said as he saw the same mail on his screen.
‘You didn’t?’ Priyanka said, as if in genuine confusion.

‘Mr Bakshi, I held you in such high esteem. Today my faith in my role-
model is shattered,’ Esha sand and put her hands to her face. She was good—I 
think she should try for an acting career.

‘No, I swear I did not,’ Bakshi said, as he scrambled with his mouse and 

‘Then who wrote it? Santa Claus? The tooth fairy?’ Vroom shouted and 
stood up. ‘You explain this to the police, the journalists and over the video 
conference to Boston exces.’

‘hah!   Look   I   have   deleted   it,’   Bakshi   said   with   a   smug   smile   is   he 

released his computer mouse.

‘C’mon Bakshi,’ Vroom said with a sigh, ‘it’s still in your ‘Deleted Items 

keyboard.

folder.’

said.

‘Oh,’   Bakshi   said   and   jerked   his   mouse.   A   few   clicks   later   he   said, 

‘There, it is gone. No more email.’

Vroom smiled, ‘One more tip for you Bakshi. Go to your Deleted Items, 
selected the tools menu and choose the “recover deleted items” option. The 
mail will be there,’ Vroom said.

Bakshi’s   face   panicked   again   as   tried   to   follow   Vroom’s   complex 

instructions. He desperately clicked his mouse.

‘Oh, stop it Bakshi. The mail is in my inbox as well. And Vroom has many 

printouts,’ Esha said.

‘Huh?’ Bakshi said as he looked like a scared rabbit. ‘You’ll never get 
away with this. Esha you know I didn’t do it. You wear right skirts and tops 
but I only look at them from a distance. Even those jeans that show your waist 
I only saw…’

‘Stop right there, you sicko,’ Esha said.
‘You can’t get away with this,’ Bakshi said.
‘We have five witnesses Bakshi, they will support Esha’s testimony,’ I 

‘Oh, an we have some other evidence as well. In Esha’s drawer there is 
a packet with cash, it has your fingerprints on I, in case you want to get tot 
hat level,’ Vroom said.

Bakshi’s fingers trembled as if he was getting ready to ply drums.
‘We   also   have   a   printout   of   your   visits   to   pornographic   websites,’ 

Radhika said.

‘You know it is not me Esha, I will finally get proved innocent,’ Bakshi 

said, his voice sounding like a hapless beggar’s. His eyes looked ready to leak.

‘Maybe. But the amazing publicity will be enough to screw your career. 
Goodbye Boston,’ I said and waved my hand to indicate farewell. Everyone 
else raided their hand and waved goodbye as well.

Bakshi looked at us in horror and sat down. His white face had now 
turned red, or rather purple—even though it was still as shiny as ever. I could 
see a twitching nerve on the side of his forehead. I felt an urge to make him 
suffer more. I stood up to pick a thick management book from his bookshelf.

I went up to Bakshi and stood next to him.

‘Why are you doing this to me? I will be leaving you forever to go to 

Boston,’ Bakshi said.

‘Boston?’ I said. ‘You do not deserve a posting to Bhatinda. You do not 
even deserve a job. In fact, one could argue you do not even deserve to live. 
You are not just a bad boss, you are a parasite: to us, to this company, to this 
country. Damn you.’

I banged the management book on his hard head. God, it felt head was 
hollow, as the impact made a big noise. God, it felt good. Few people in this 
world get to hit their boss, but those who do will tell you it is better than sex.
‘What do you want? What is it you want? You wan to destroy me,’ Bakshi 
said, rubbing his head. ‘I have a family with two kids. With great difficulty my 
career is going fine. My wife wants to leave me anyway. Don’t destroy me. I 
am human too.’

I disagreed with Bakshi’s last phrase. I didn’t think he was human at all.
‘Destroying you is a good, fun option,’ Vroom said, ‘but we have more 
worthwhile goals for now. I want to do a deal with you. We bury this issue and 
in return you do some things for us.’

‘What kind of things?’ Bakshi said.
‘One. I want to have control of the call center for the next two hours. I 

need to get on the mass speaker.’

The one management is used to talk to everyone. Why do you want it? 

Will you talk about this email?’ Bakshi said.

‘No, you moron. It is so save jobs at the call center. Now, do I have the 

right?’

speaker?’

‘Yes. What else?’
‘I want you to write out a resignation letter for Shyam and me. Layoffs 

or not, we are quitting Connexions.’

‘You guys are quitting right now?’ the girls said.
‘Yes.   Shyam   and   I   will   start   a   small   website   design   business.   Right, 

Shyam?’ Vroom said.

‘Yes,’ I said. Wow! I thought.
‘Good. And this time, no idiot will take credit for our websites,’ Vroom 
said and slapped Bakshi’s face. Bakshi’s face turned sixty degrees from the 
impact. He held his cheeks but remained silent, apart from a tiny dry sob. His 
facial expression had a combination of ninety percent pain and ten percent 
shame

‘May I?’ I said.
‘Be my guest,’ Vroom said.
Slap! I gave a slap on Bakshi’s face. The face turned sixty degrees in the 
other direction. It was my most fun career moment. The shiny face turned 
hot.

‘So you will do the resignation letter, okay?’ Vroom said.
‘Okay,’ Bakshi said, rubbing his cheek. ‘But Esha will delete the email 

‘Wait.   We   are   not   done.   Our   business   will   require   start-up   capital. 
Therefore, we need a severance package of six months’ salary. Understood?’ 
Vroom said.

‘I cannot do six months. It is unprecedented for agents,’ Bakshi said.
‘NDTV or Times of India, you pick,’ Vroom said as he took out his phone.
‘Six months is possible. Good managers break precedents,’ Bakshi said. I 

guess no number of slaps could break his jargon.

‘Nice. Last thing. I want you to retract the right-sizing proposal. Arrange 
a call with Boston. Ask them to postpone the layoffs to try a new sales-driven 
recovery plan for Connexions.

‘I can’t do that,’ Bakshi said.
Vroom lifted his mobile phone and put it in front of Bakshi’s face.
‘I’ll make sure all of India knows you by tomorrow,’ Vroom said. ‘Listen, 
you idiot. I don’t care about this job, but there are agents with kids, families 
and responsibilities in life. You can’t just fire them. They are people, not 
resources. Now, which news channel is your favorite?’

‘Give me half an hour. I’ll set up a call with Boston,’ Bakshi said.
‘Good we’ll bury the email. But you get the hell out of the call center, 
this city, and this country as fast as you can. We need a new boss. We need a 
normal, decent, inspiring human being and not a slimy, blood-sucking goofball 
with fancy degrees.’

Bakshi nodded as he continuously wiped the sweat from his face.
‘Good.   Anything   else?;   you   had   some   questions   about   my   monitor?’ 

Vroom said.

‘Monitor? What monitor?’ Bakshi said.

#33

Bakshi gave Vroom the key to the speaker room. Soon, Bakshi was on his 
phone, calling Boston to arrange management meetings. I have never seen 
him work so efficiently.

Vroom went to the broadcast room and switched on the mikes. I went to 

the main computers bay to check for sound quality.

‘Hello, everyone. May I have your attention please? This is Vroom, from 

the strategic group.’

Vroom’s voice echoed through Connexions. Every agent looked up at the 

speakers as they continued to talk tot heir customers.

‘Sorry, to bother you, but we have an emergency. This is about the 

layoffs. Can you please disconnect all your calls,’ the speaker said.

Everyone heard the word layoffs and a thousand calls ended at the same 

time. New calls flashed, but no one picked them up. Vroom continued:

‘Idiots have managed this place, because of which we have to suffer 
tonight. For their mistakes, more than a third of you will lose your jobs. It 
does not seem fair to me. Does it seem fair to you?’

No response came back.
‘C’mon guys, I want to hear you. Do I have your support to save your 

jobs band this call center?’

them said a weak ‘yes’.

All the agents looked at each other, still in partial disbelief. Many of 

‘Louder guys, all together. Do I have your support?’ Vroom said.
‘Yes!’ a collective scream rocked Connexions.
I was standing at the corner hall of the main bay. Every agent glued his 
or her eyes to the fire-drill speaker. Vroom continued, this time in a firmer 
voice.

‘Thank you. My friends, I am angry. Because every day, I see some of 
the   world’s   strongest   and   smartest   people   in   my   country.   I   see   all   this 
potential,   yet   it   is   all   getting   wasted.   An   entire   generation   up   all   night, 
providing   crutches   for   the   white   morons   to   run   their   lives.   And   then   big 
companies come and convince us with their advertising to vale crap we don’t 
need,  do  jobs we  hate  so that we  can  but  stuff—junk food,  colored fizzy 
water, dumbass credit cards and overpriced shoes. They call it youth culture. 
Is this what they think youth is about? Two generations ago, the youth got this 
country free. Now that was something meaningful. But what happened after 
that? We have just been reduced to a high-spending demographic. The only 
youth power they care about is our spending power,’ Vroom said, and even I 
was amazed at the attention every agent gave him.

Vroom continued: ‘Meanwhile bad bosses and stupid Americans suck the 
life blood out of our country’s most productive generation. But tonight we will 
show them. And for that I need your support. Tell me are you ready to work 
hard for the next two hours?’

‘Yes!’ a collective vice cam back. The whole call center vibrated as 

Vroom paused to take a breath.

‘Good, then listen. The call center will survive if our call traffic goes up. 
My plan is to scare the Americans into calling us regularly. Tell them that 
terrorists have hit America with a new computer virus that will take their 
country down. The only was they can be safe is if they keep calling us to 
report there status. We do it like this, pull out every customer number you 
have and call them. I will send you a call script on email. The mail will come 
to you in five minutes. Until then, get those numbers out,’ Vroom said.

Noise levels rose in the main bay as hundreds of localized conversation 
took place simultaneously. There was a frenzy as people took printouts of all 
customer numbers in their database. Nobody was sure if the plan would work, 
but people were willing to try anything to avoid layoffs.

Vroom and I came to our bay. He typed furiously on his computer and 

tapped my shoulder after a few minutes.

‘Check your email,’ Vroom said and pointed to my screen.
I opened my inbox. Vroom had sent the mail to everyone in the call 

center.

Subject: Operation Yankee Fear
Dear All.
Operating   Yankee   Fear’s   single   aim   is   to   increase   the 
incoming call traffic 
In the Connexions call center, capitalizing on Americans being the biggest 
cowards on the planet. This will prevent the planned mass-layoffs and help 
us buy more time to fix things around the place, including a marketing 
efforts to get new clients.
Operation Yankee Fear cannot succeed without your 100% cooperation. So, 
please   read   the   instructions   below   carefully   and   relentlessly   focus   on 
making calls for the next two hours. When you call each customer, the key 
message you have to deliver is as follows:

3.

1. Start by saying you are sorry to disturb them on Thanksgiving Day.
2. State that ‘evil forces’ of the world have unleashed a computer virus 
that threatens to pervade every computer in America. This way the evil 
forces will monitor every American and eventually destroy the American 
economy. Tel them that, according to your information, the virus has 
hit their computer.
If asked what the ‘evil forces’ are, give vague explanation like ‘forces 
that want to harm the US’ or ‘organizations that threaten freedom and 
liberty’   etc.   Remember,   the   more   vague   you   are,   the   greater   the 
amount of fear you can create. Try to inject genuine panic into your 
voice.

4. To  check whether  the  virus has hit them  or not, make  them  do  an 
MSWord test. Tell them to open an empty MSWord file, and type in 

=rand (200, 99) and press enter. If a lot of text pops comes out, that 
means there is a virus. (Don’t worry: the text will pop out-it is a bug in 
MSWord).   Once   that   happens,   your   customers   might   start   shaking   in 
fear.

5. Tell them you can save them from this virus as a) you are from India, 
and all Indians are good at computers b) India has faced terrorism for 
years   and   c)   they   are   valued   clients   and   you   believe   in   customer 
service.

6. However, if they want our help, they must keep calling the Connexions 
call center every six hours. Even if nothing happens, they should just 
call to say things are okay. (The shorter the calls, the better for us 
anyway).

7. Once calls rise, I will speak to Boston about the sudden rise in traffic 

and recommend we postpone the layoffs for two months.

After that, we can implement a revival strategy.

Cheers,
Varun @ WASG

Vroom grinned and winked at me as I finished reading the email.
‘What’s with the MSWord trick?’ I said.
I opened an empty Word document and typed in =rand (200,99).
As soon as I pressed Enter, two hundred pages of text popped out. It was 

spooky, and went something like this:

The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. The quick brown fox jumps 
over the lazy dog. The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. The quick 
brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy 
dog. The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. The quick brown fox 
jumps over the lazy dog. The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. The 
quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. The quick brown fox jumps over 
the lazy dog. The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. The quick brown  
fox jumps …………

‘This is unbelievable. What is this?’ I said.
‘I told you. It’s bug in MSWord. Nothing is perfect. Now just wait and 

Vroom’s   email   reached   a   thousand   mailboxes   and   agents   read   it 

watch the fun,’ Vroom said.

immediately.

Team   leader   further   assisted   agents   in   clarifying   doubts.   With   in 
minutes, agents were doing a job they knew only too well: calling people to 
deliver a message as fast as possible. I left my bay and passed by the main 
bay. I picked up random sentences from the telephone conversations.

‘Hello   Mr   William,   sorry   to   disturb   you   on   Thanksgiving.   I   am   from 
Western Computers with an urgent situation. America is under a virus attack,’ 
one agent said.

‘Yes sir, your computer as per our records is affected…’ said another.
‘Don’t freak out sir. But, yes, it looks like the evil forces have targeted 

you,’ an eighteen-year-old agent said. ‘But we can save you.’

‘Just keep calling us. Every four to six hours,’ said one, as she ended 

the call.

The more aggressive agents went a step further: ‘And I want you to tell 

all your friends and relatives. Yes, they can call us too.’

Some   customers   panicked,   and   agents   had   to   reassure   them:   ‘No 

problem. We will save this country. The evil forces will never succeed.’

A thousand agents, four minutes to a call—we could do thirty thousand 
calls in two hours. If they called us every six hours, we would have over a 
hundred thousand calls a day. Even if this lasted a week, we would hit our 
targets to cover the next two months. Hopefully, with a new manager and 
extra sales effort, Connexions could recover. And for now, no one would lose 
his or her job.

Vroom cam looking for me in the main bay. We went back to the WASG. 

Vroom signaled me into the conference room.

‘The response is amazing. We have just called for thirty minutes, and 

call traffic is up five times already.’ Vroom said.

‘Rocking   man,’ I said. ‘You make me feel confident about our web 
design company. But let’s go back to the desk, why have you called me here?’

‘We have to discuss the third private agenda.’
‘What’s that?’ I said.
‘The third agenda is for you. Don’t you want Priyanka back?’

#3   4  

‘No. Priyanka and I are over,’ I said.
‘Be honest dude. You spoke to God and everything.’
I looked down. Vroom waited until I said something.
‘It doesn’t matter if I want to or not. Look at my competition. How am I 

going to succeed against Mr Perfect Match Ganesh?’

‘See, that is the problem. We all think Ganesh is Mr Perfect. But nobody 

is perfect.’

‘Yeah right. A  house with a pool, a car that costs more than ten years’ 
of my salary, freaking working for the world’s top company—I don’t see much 
imperfection in that.’

‘Everyone has a flaw, dude. The trick is to find a flaw in Ganesh.’
‘Well how are we ever going to do that? And even if we find a flaw in 

him, what is the point? He is so good, Priyanka will still go for him,’ I said.

‘At  least Priyanka  will know  she  isn’t  making the  perfect  trade-off,’ 

Vroom said.

I remained silent for two minutes. ‘Yes, but how do we find Ganesh’s 

flaw now?’ I said and looked at my watch. It was 5:30 a.m.

‘There must be a way,’ Vroom said.
‘The shift is over in ninety minutes, and then Priyanka goes home. What 
are you planning to do? Hire some instant detectives in Seattle?’ I said, my 
voice irritated.

‘Don’t give up Shyam,’ Vroom said and patted my shoulder.
‘I am trying to forget Priyanka. But if you search within me, there is still 

pain. Don’t make it worse, Vroom.’

‘Wow, what drama. Search within me, there is pain, Vroom said and 

laughed.

I said.

‘Sorry for my lame lines. Let’s go back to the bay,’ I said.
‘Hey wait a minute. You just said search.’
‘Yes, search within me, there is still pain. Pretty cheesy, I know. Why?’ 

‘Search. That is what we can do. Google will be our detective. Let’s do a 

search on his name and see what comes out. There could be some surprises.’

‘What? You want to do a search for Ganesh?’
‘Yes, but we need his full name. Let’s find out his college at well. I 
think he did his masters in computers from the US,’ he said and grabbed my 
shirt. ‘C’mon, let’s go.’

‘Where?’ I said, even as I let myself get dragged.
‘To the WASG bay,’ Vroom said.
Priyanka was busy on the phone, scaring Americans out of their wits. I 
think   she   can   put   on   that   voice   of   authority   when   she   wants,   and   it   is 
impossible not to believe her. It comes from her mother I think. Vroom spoke 
to her after she had ended a call.

‘Hey   Priyanka,   quick   question.   My   cousin   also   did   a   Masters   in 

computers from the US. Which college did Ganesh go to?’

‘Huh? Wisconsin I think,’ she said.
‘Really. Let me email my cousin and ask him if it is the same one. What 

is Ganesh’s full name by the way?’

‘Gupta. Ganesh Gupta,’ Priyanka said as she prepared to make another 

call.

‘Oooh Mrs Priyanka Gupta,’ Esha said in a mock high-society voice and 
laughed.   Priyanka   pocked   her   with   her   elbow.   Priyanka’s   new   name   sent 
ripples of pain down my rib cage.

searched for the following terms on google.com:

‘Cool. Keep calling,’ Vroom said and went back to his seat.
As Vroom’s monitor was broken, he took control of my computer. He 
ganesh gupta drunk Wisconsin
ganesh gupta fines Wisconsin
ganesh gupta girlfriend

Several links popped out, but there was nothing we could make much 
sense or use of. We hit upon Ganesh’s list of classmates, and found out that 
he was in the Dean’s list in Boston.

some more searches.

‘Damn, what a boring guy. Let me try some more,’ Vroom said and did 
ganesh gupta fail
ganesh gupta party

Nothing interesting came out.
‘Forget it man. He was probably the head boy in school,’ I said.
‘You bet, one of those teacher’s per types,’ Vroom said, letting out a 
frustrated breath. ‘I give up. I am sure if I type something like this. Lots will 
pop out, achiever that he is.’

ganesh gupta Microsoft award

More links popped out. We clicked through a few, and then we hit on 

one with his picture. It was Ganesh’s online album.

‘Damn, it is him, with his buddies,’ Vroom whispered and clicked on the 

link. ‘Let’s check out how ugly his friends are.’

The link opened to a webpage titled ‘Microsoft Award Party photos.’ 
The  party   was  at  Ganesh’s  house.   Ganesh  had   won  some  sidey   developer 
award   at   Microsoft.   A   couple   of   his   friends   had   come   to   his   house   to 
celebrate.

‘Do slideshow,’ I said as Vroom selected the option. We looked up once 

to confirm the girls were busy with their calls.

As the picture came on the screen, we saw a garden party full of Indian 
people. On the tables, there was enough food to feed a small town. I saw 
Ganesh’s house and the over-hyped personal pool. It was no more than an 

oversized bathtub, if you ask me, even though Ganesh had made it sound like 
Olympic champions trained in it.

‘Hey, I think we found something. Check out our man,’ Vroom said. He 

pointed to one of the photos in which Ganesh held a beer glass.

‘What is the big deal?’ I said. It was hardly scandalous to hold a glass of 

beer. Priyanka herself could knock down ten of them if they were free.

‘Check out Ganesh’s head,’ Vroom said.
‘What/’ I said. I looked closer, and then I saw it.
‘Oh no,’ I said, and covered my mouth to keep my voice down.
In the picture, Ganesh had a bald spot in the middle of his head. It was 

the size of the a Happy meal burger and had caught the camera’s flashlight.

‘Unbelie…’ I said.
‘Shhh!’ Vroom said. ‘Did you see that. He has perfect hair in the statue 

of Liberty picture.’

‘Are all his photos in this album like this?’ I said.
‘Yes  sir,’  Vroom   said  and   flicked  through   the   slideshow.   One   boring 
picture after another followed—mainly people with mouths and plates stuffed 
with   food.   Every   picture   had   one   thing   in   common:   whatever   there   was 
Ganesh, there was a shiny spot.

Vroom pushed his computer mouse away. He reclined back on his chair 
with a proud expression, ‘As I said sir, no one is perfect. Apart from Google, 
of course.’

I looked at the screen and Vroom’s face in amazement.
‘So, now what?’ I said.
‘Now we invite the ladies for a viewing,’ Vroom said and grinned.
‘No. this is not right…’ I said, but it was too late.
‘Esha,   Radhika,   Priyanka.   Want   to   see   some   more   Ganesh   pictures? 

Come here fast,’ Vroom said.

The girls stopped their phone calls and looked at us. Esha and Radhika 

stood up.

‘Where, where? Show us,’ Esha said.
‘What are you talking about?’ Priyanka said and came over to our side.
‘The power of the internet. We found an online album. Come see what 
your new house is like,’ Vroom said.  He kept quiet about the shiny spot so 
that the girls discover it for themselves. I saw the mixture of excitement and 
curiosity in Priyanka’s face.

‘Nice pad,’ Esha said, as she notice the barbeque behind the pool, ‘but 
where   is   Ganesh.   Let   me   guess,’   she   said   and   brought   her   finger   to   the 
monitor. Here, this one no. but wait, he is a baldie. Is he the elder brother?’

Priyanka and Radhika looked closer.
‘No, that is Ganesh,’ Priyanka said as her mouth opened as wide as the 

bald spot. I could sense that the wind had been knocked out of her lungs.

‘But I didn’t notice the bald spot in the photo you showed us Priyanka…’ 
Esha said. Radhika squeezed Esha’s arm. Esha stopped talking and raised her 
eyebrows.

Priyanka came closed to the computer and began flipping through the 
images. She did not realize it, but her hair was falling on my shoulders as she 
bent over. It felt nice.

However, Priyanka was not feeling nice. She brought out the statue of 

liberty picture and we looked at it again. Ganesh had perfect hair.

‘Maybe the guy in the online album is Ganesh’s elder brother,’ Radhika 

‘No. Ganesh does not have a brother. He only has one sister. Priyanka 

said.

said, her face distraught.

There was silence for a few seconds.
‘Well   doesn’t   really   matter   much,   eh?   What’s   a   bit   of   smooth   skin 
between the true over of two souls,’ Vroom said. I clamped my jaws shut to 
prevent a laugh escaping. ‘Let’s go back people, enough of fun. Don’t forget 
the calls,’ Vroom sad.

Priyanka retraced her steps in slow motion. She went back to her seat 
and took out her  mobile  phone. She  dialed a long number,  probably long 
distance. This call was going to be fun, and I wished I could have tapped it.

‘Hello Ganesh,’ Priyanka said in a direct voice. ‘Listen, I cannot talk for 
long. I just want to check on something…yes, jus one question…actually I was 
just surfing the Internet…’ Priyanka said and got up from her seat. She moved 
to the corner of the room and I could not hear her thereafter.

I   made   a   few   calls   and   terrorized   a   few   more   Americans.   Priyanka 

returned after ten minutes and tossed her cell phone on the desk.

Esha jiggled her eyebrows up and down, as if to ask ‘What’s up?’
‘It is him in the online pictures,’ Priyanka said. ‘He didn’t have much to 
say. He said his mother asked him to slightly touch up the hair in the Status of 
Liberty snap as that would help in the arranged marriage market.’

‘Oh no,’ Esha said.
‘He apologized several times. He said he was against tampering with the 

picture but had to agree when his mother insisted.’

‘Can’t he think for himself?’ Esha said.
‘Oh God, what am I going to do?’ Priyanka said.
‘Did the apologies seem genuine?’ Radhika said.
‘Yes. I think so. He said he understood how I must feel. He said he was 

ready to apologize in front of my family as well.’

‘Well, then it is okay. What different does it make? You don’t really 

care about him being bald, do you?’ Radhika said.

‘Yeah, besides practically all men become bald in a few years anyway. 

It’s not like you can do something about it then,’ Esha said.

‘That’s true,’ Priyanka said, in a mellow voice. I could see her relenting, 

and I turned to Vroom.

‘Yeah, doesn’t matter. Just make sure he wears a cap at the wedding. 
Unless   you   want   to   touch   up   all   the   wedding   pictures,’   Vroom   said   and 
chuckled. Esha and I looked down to suppress out grins.

‘Shut up, Vroom,’ Radhika said.

‘Sorry, I am being mean. Honestly, it is no big deal Priyanka. No one is 

perfect, we all know that right? So, let’s get back to the calls,’ Vroom said.

#35

For the next half hour we focused on one activity—making calls to save 

Connexions.

At 6:30 a.m., I went up the main bay. Team leaders huddled around me 
as   they   gave   me   the   news.   The   incoming   calls   had   shot   up   already   even 
though we had expected the big boost six hours later. Despite turkey dinners. 
Americans were scared out of their wits. Some had called us several times an 
hour.

Vroom and I went to Bakshi’s office with some senior team leaders. 
Bakshi had arranged an urgent video conference call with the Boston office. 
Bakshi supported us as we presented the new call data, insights into the call 
traffic, and potential new sources of revenue. After a twenty-minute video 
discussion, Boston agreed to a two-month reprieve to the layoffs. They also 
agreed to evaluate the possibility of sending top team leaders on a short-term 
sales assignment to Boston. However, the team leaders would have to present 
a clear plan over the next for weeks.

‘How did we do it man? I never thought it would work,’ I asked Vroom as 

we came out of Bakshi’s office.

‘Promise Americans lots of future dollars, and they listen to you. Only a 

two-month reprieve, but that’s enough for now,’ Vroom said.

Reassured that Connexions was safe, I returned to my desk. Vroom went 
outside to clean the Qualis before the driver woke up. I had told Vroom I 
wanted   to   slip   away—no   goodbyes,   no   hugs   and   no   promises   to   meet, 
especially in front of Priyanka Vroom agreed and said he would be ready with 
his bike outside at 6:50 a.m.

The girls stopped their calls at 6:45 a.m. as our shift got over. Everyone 
began to log out so they could be in time for the Qualis, which would be ready 
at the gate at 7:0 a.m.

‘I’m  so   excited.   Radhika  is  moving  into   my  place,’   Esha   said   as  she 
switched off her monitor. She opened her handbag and started re-arranging 
the contents.

‘Really?’ I said.
‘Yes, I am,’ Radhika said. ‘And Military Uncle is going to recommend a 

lawyer friend. I need a good, tough divorce lawyer.’

‘Won’t you try to work it out?’ Priyanka said as she collected the sweet 

boxes and placed them back in the bag.

‘We’ll see. I am in no mood to compromise. And I am not going back to 
hi   house   now   for   sure.   Today,   my   mother-in-law   will   make   her   own 
breakfast.’

‘And after that, I’m taking her to Chandigarh for the weekend,’ Esha 

said and smiled.

Everyone was busy making plans. I excused myself on the pretext of 

going to the water cooler for a drink so I could leave the office from there.

#36

At 6:47 a.m. I reached the water cooler. I bent towards the tap to take 

a last drink at the call center.

As I finished, I stood up to find Priyanka behind me.
‘Hi,’ she said. ‘Leaving?’
‘Oh, hi. Yes, I am going back on Vroom’s bike…’ I said and wiped my 

‘I’ll miss you,’ she said, interrupting me.
‘Huh? Where? In the Qualis?’ I said.
‘No   Shyam,   I’ll   miss  you   in   general.   I’m   sorry   about   the   way   things 

mouth.

turned out.’

‘Don’t be sorry,’ I said, shaking my fingers dry. ‘It is more my fault. I 

understand that. I acted like a loser…’

mean you stop loving it/’ Priyanka said.

‘Shyam, you know how Vroom said just because India is poor doesn’t 

‘What?’ I blinked at the change of topic. ‘Oh yes. And I agree, it is our 

country after all…’

‘Yes,   we   love  India   because   it   is  ours.   But,   do   you   know   the  other 

reason why we don’t stop loving it?’

‘Why?’
‘You don’t because it isn’t completely India’s fault that we are behind. 
Yes, some of our past leader could have done things differently, but now we 
have the potential and we know it. And as Vroom says, one day we will show 
them.’

‘Point   Good   Point,’   I   said.   I   found   it   strange   that   she   should   talk 
nationalism   this   early   in   the   morning.   Not   to   mention   during   what   was 
possibly our last time together.

I nodded and started walking away from her. ‘Anyway, I think Vroom 

will be waiting…’ I said.

‘Wait, I am not done,’ she said.
‘What?’ I said and stopped to look at her.
‘I applied the same logic to something else,’ she said. ‘I thought, this is 
the same as my Shyam, who may not be successful now, but it doesn’t mean 
the doesn’t have the potential. And it sure as hell doesn’t mean I stop loving 
him.’

I stood there dumbstruck. This was unexpected. I fumbled for words, 

and finally spoke shakily:

‘You know what Priyanka? You say these good lines…that even though 
all night I tried to hate you, it’s impossible. But I know I should hate you and 
then I should move on. Because I can’t offer you what Mr Microsoft can…’ I 
was speaking hastily out of nervousness and shock.

‘Ganesh,’ she interrupted me.
‘What?’ I said.
‘Ganesh is his name. Not Mr Microsoft,’ she said.

said.

‘Yes, whatever,’ I kept talking,, without pausing to breathe. ‘I can’t 
offer you what Ganesh can. No way I could ever buy a Lexus. Maybe a Maruti 
800 one day, but that’s about it…’

She smiled.
‘Really? 800? With or without AC?’ she said.
‘Shut up, I am trying to say something deep and you find a funny,’ I 

She laughed again, though gently. I wiped a tear from my right eye. She 

raised her hand and wiped the other tear from my left eye.

‘Anyway, it is over between us, Priyanka. And I know it. I should get 

over it soon. I know, I know,’ I said, talking more to myself.

She waited until I had composed myself. I bent over to splash my face 

with water at the cooler.

‘Anyway, where is your wedding? Your mom will probably blow all her 

cash for a big gig,’ I said, straightening up.

‘Some five-star hotel, I am sure. She’ll be paying off loans for years, but 

she has to get a gold-plated stage that night. You’ll come, right?’

‘I don’t know,’ I said.
‘What do you mean you don’ know? It’ll be so strange if you aren’t 

‘What, what did you just say?’ I said.
She pinched my cheek and imitated me: ‘What, what did you just say?’
I just stood there shocked.
‘But don’t think I am going to let you go that easy. One day I want my 

800 with AC,’ she said and laughed.

‘What?’ I said.
‘You heard me. I want to marry you, Shyam,’ Priyanka said.
I could not believe her words. I though I would jump in joy, but mostly I 
was shocked. And even though I wanted to hug, cry and laugh at the same 
time, a firm voice asked like a guard inside me.  What was this all about? 
Hell, however miserable my life was, I didn’t want pity.

‘What are you saying Priyanka? You will choose me over Ganesh? Is this 

a sympathy decision?’

‘Stop   thinking   about   yourself.   My   life’s   biggest   decision   can’t   be   a 

sympathy decision. I have thought about it. Ganesh is great, but…’

‘But what?’ I said.
‘But the whole touching up of the photo bothers me. He is an achiever 

on his own. So why did he have to lie?’

there.’

strange if I am not there?’

Priyanka said.

my head.

‘I   don’t   want   to   come   there   and   feel   horrible.   Anyway,   what’s   so 

‘Well, it’s little strange if the groom is not there at his own wedding,’ 

I froze as I heard the words. I rewound her last sentence three times in 

‘You are rejecting him because he is bald? My hair isn’t reliable either,’ 
I said. It was true. Every time I took a shower, the towel had more time than 
me.

‘No. I am not rejecting him because he is bald. Most men go bald one 
day,, it is horrible, I know,’ she said and ruffled my hair. She continued: ‘He 
might be fine in most ways, but the point is, he lied. And this gives me a clue 
about the person he is. I don’t want to spend my life with a person like that. 
In   fact,   I   don’t   want   to   spend   my   life   with   a   person   I   don’t   know   well 
beforehand. That is one part of my decision. There is the other big part.’

‘What/’ I said.
‘That I love you. Because you are the only person in the world I can be 
myself with. And because you are the only person who knows me with all my 
flaws and still loves me completely. I hope,’ she said, with a quivering voice.

I did not say anything.
She spoke again: ‘And even if the world says I am cold, there is a part of 
me that is sentimental, irrational and romantic. Do I really care about money? 
Only because people tell me I should. Hell, I prefer truck driver dhabhas over 
five-star hotels. Shyam, I know mom and you say I am uncaring…’

‘I never said that…’ I said and held her shoulders.
‘I’m sorry, Shyam. I judged you so much. I am such a bitch,’ Priyanka 

said.

She sniffed. Her puckered nose looked cuter than it ever had.
‘It’s okay Priyanka,’ I said and wiped her tears.
‘So that is it, Shyam. Deep inside, I am just a girl who wants to be with 
her favourite boy. Because like you, this girl is a person who needs a lot of 
love.’

‘Love?’ I need a lot of love?’ I said.
‘Of course, you do. And everyone else does too.; funny we never say it. 
It is okay to scream in public if you are hungry “I’m starving”. It is okay to 
make a fuss if you are tired “I’m so sleepy”. But somehow we cannot say “I 
just need some more love”. Why can’t we say it, Shyam? It is as basic a need.’
I looked at her. Whenever she gives these deep, philosophical lines, I 

get horribly attracted to her. The guard inside reminded me, ‘Be firm’.

‘Priyanka?’
‘Yes, she said, still sniffling.
‘I love you,’ I said.
‘I love you too,’ Priyanka said.
‘Thanks. However…Priyanka, I can’t marry you. Sorry to say this, but my 

answer to your mind-blowing proposal is no,’ I said.

‘What?’ Priyanka said as her eyes opened wide in disbelief. The guard 

inside me was in full charge.

‘No. I cannot marry you. I am a new person tonight. And this new person 
needs to make a new life and find new respect for himself. You chose Ganesh, 
and he is fine. You have an option for a new life. You don’t really need me. So 
maybe it is better this way,’ I said.

‘I still love you Shyam, and only you. Please don’t do this…’ she said and 

came closer to me.

‘Sorry,’ I said and moved back three steeps. ‘I can’t. I am not your spare 

wheel. I appreciate you coming back, but I think I am ready to move on.’

She just stood there and cried. My heart felt weak, but my head was 

strong.

‘Bye Priyanka ,’ I gingerly patted her shoulder and left.

#37

‘What the hell kept you?’ Vroom said, as he sat on his bike and the main 

entrance. He showed his watch to me, it was 6:59 a.m.

‘Sorry man, Priyanka met me at the water cooler,’ I said and sank onto 

the pillion seat.

‘And?’ Vroom said.
‘Nothing. Just goodbye and all. Oh, and she wanted to get back—marry 

me, she said. Can you believe it?’

Vroom turned to me.
‘Really? What did you say?’
‘I said no,’ I said coolly.
‘What?’ Vroom said.
As we were talking, Radhika, Esha and Military Uncle came out of the 

main entrance into the wintry sunshine.

‘Hi, you guys still here?’ Radhika said.
‘Shyam just said no to Priyanka. She wanted to marry him,’ but he said 

no.’

‘What/’ Radhika and Esha spoke unison.
‘Hey guys, chill out. I did what I needed to do to get some respect in my 

life. Quit bothering me,’ I said.

The Qualis driver bothering me,’ I said.
‘We aren’t bothering you. It’s your life—let’s go Esha,’ Radhika said and 

gave me a dirty look. She turned to Esha as they walked to the Qualis.
‘Where’s Priyanka madam? We are getting late,’ the driver said.
‘She’s coming. She is on the phone with her mother. Ganesh’s parents 
are coming home for breakfast. Her mother is making hot paranthas,’ Radhika 
said, loud enough so I could hear. The mention of paranthas made me hungry. 
But I guess I would be the last person to be invited to this breakfast.

‘Looks   like   their   entire   families   are   getting   married   to   each   other,’ 
Vroom said. He lit a cigarette to take a few final puffs before we began our 
ride back.

The driver started the Qualis. Esha and Radhika sat in the middle row, 

while Military Uncle sat behind.

Priyanka came running our of the main entrance. She avoided me and 
went straight to the Qualis front seat. The driver turned the Qualis so its rear 
end faced us.

As the Qualis began to move, Military Uncle looked out from his window 
and said something. I could only make out in lip sync. ‘You bloody idiot…’ I 
thought it was.

Before I could react, the Qualis was gone.
Vroom stubbed out his cigarette.
‘Oh no. I am a bloody idiot. I let her go,’ I said.
‘Uh-huh,’ Vroom said as he wore his helmet.
‘Is that a yes? You think I am a total idiot?’

‘You are your best judge,’ Vroom said as he dragged the bike with his 

‘Vroom, what have I done? If she reaches home and has paranthas with 
Ganesh’s family, it is all over. I am such a moron,’ I said and started jumping 
up and down on my seat.

‘Stop dancing around. I have to ride,’ Vroom said s he placed his foot on 

‘Vroom, we have to catch the Qualis. Can you ride fast enough to catch 

feet.

the kick-pedal.

it?’

Vroom removed his helmet laughed.
‘Are you insulting me? You are doubting that I can catch that wreck of a 

Qualis? I am hurt, man.’

‘Vroom, let’s go. Please,’  said and pushed his shoulders.
‘No. first you apologize for doubting my driving abilities.’
‘I am sorry, boss, I am sorry,’ I said and folded my hands. ‘Now move, 

Schumacher.’

Vroom kick-started his bike. In a few seconds, we had zipped out of the 
call center. The main road was getting busier in the morning, but Vroom still 
managed ninety an hour. We dodged cars, scooters, autos, school buses and 
newspaper hawkers as we took the road to Delhi.

Four minutes later, I noticed a Qualis at a distant traffic signal.
‘It must be that one,’ I pointed out.
Just as Vroom moved ahead, a herd of goats decided to cross the road. 

There were fifty of them, blocking our way.

‘Damn, where did they come from?’ I said, nervous as hell.
‘Gurgaon   was   a   village   until   recently;   the   goats   are   probably   asking 

where did we come from,’ Vroom said as he cracked his knuckles.

‘Shut up and do something,’ I said.
Vroom tried to move his bike, but he only bumped into a goat’s horns. 
He considered taking the right side of the road with traffic going the other 
way—but it was full of trucks that would kill us in five seconds.

‘There is only one option,’ Vroom said and smiled at me through the 

helmet.

‘Wha…’ I was saying when Vroom lunged his bike up on the road divider.
‘Are you crazy?’ I said.
‘No, you are crazy to let her go,’ Vroom said and started riding on the 
divider. Te goats and traffic looked at us in shock. Vroom dodged through the 
street lights, until we had crossed the herd. Once back on the road, Vroom 
sped up to a hundred. A minute later, our bike met the Qualis at a red light. I 
got off the bike and tapped the front window. Priyanka looked away. I banged 
the glass with my palm.

She opened the window. ‘What is it? We don’t want to buy anything,’ 

Priyanka said, as if I was a roadside vendor.

‘I am an idiot,’ I said.
‘And?’ Priyanka said.

Everyone in the Qualis rolled down their windows to look at me.
‘I am a moron. I am stupid and insane and nuts. Please I want to marry 

you.’

‘Oh really? What about the new man needing respect?’ Priyanka said.
‘I didn’t know what I was saying. What does one do with respect? I can’t 

keep it in my pocket,’ I said.

‘So you want to keep me in your pocket/’ Priyanka said.
‘You are already in every pocket—of my life, my heart, my mind, my 
soul—please comeback. Will you come back?’ I said, as the red light turned 
yellow.

‘Hmm. Let’s see…’ Priyanka said.
‘Priyanka, please answer fast.’
‘I don’t know. Let me think. Meet me at the next red light okay? Let’s 
go Driver ji,’ she said as the light turned green. The driver, as if enjoying my 
misery, took off at full speed.

‘What did she say?’ Vroom said as I sat on the bike.
‘She’ll answer at the next red light. Let’s go.’

There was a mini-=traffic jam at the next red light. I got off the bike 
and ran past a few vehicles to reach the Qualis. I tapped the window again. 
Priyanka wasn’t there.

‘Where is she?’ I asked the driver. He shrugged his shoulders. 
I looked inside the Qualis. Radhika and Esha shrugged their shoulders; 

she wasn’t in there.

Someone came up from behind and hugged me.
‘I told you we didn’t want to buy anything. Why are you bothering us?’
I turned around to look at Priyanka.
‘I don’t know what I was doing at the water cooler,’ I said.
‘Shut up and hug me,’ Priyanka said and opened her arms.
Our eyes met, and even though I wanted to speak a lot, our eyes did al 
the talking. I hugged her for a few seconds, and then she kissed me. Our lips 
locked, and every passenger stuck in the traffic jam looked at us, enjoying 
the early morning show. It was awkward to kiss in this setting, but I could not 
extract myself from her. We were kissing after six months, and there was a 
lot of pent-up demand. Vroom and everyone else from the Qualis surrounded 
us. Soon, they began to clap and whistle. The vehicles on the road joined in 
with their horns in sync with the applause. But I could not see them or hear 
them. Al I could see was Priyanka, and all I could hear was my inner voice that 
said—kiss her, kiss her and kiss her some more.

#38

Well guys, that is how that night, and my story ends. We did not know 
what, how or when things would happen in the future. And to some extent, 
we still don’t know. But that is what life is like—uncertain, screwed up at 
times, but still fun. However, let me tell you where we were one month after 
this night. Vroom and I started this website design company with the seed 
capital   that   Bakshi   gave   us.   We   called   it   the   Black   Sheep   Web   Design 
Company. In a month, we had only managed to get one local order. It helped 
us break even or even show a profit—depending on whether Vroom charged 
the cigarettes to the company or not. No international orders yet, but we 
shall see.

Esha quit her modeling aspirations and continued to work at the call 
center.   However,   she   works   with   this   NGO   during   the   day.   Her   job   is   to 
fundraise   with   corporate.   I   heard   she   is   doing   well.   I   guess   when   male 
executives hear such a hot  woman ask for money for a good cause,  they 
cannot say no. most of them are probably staring at her navel ring when they 
are signing the cheque. Apart from that, Vroom asked her out on a coffee 
semi-date (whatever that means) for next week and I think she said yes. 

Military Uncle got a visa for the US and went to make amends with his 
son. He has not come back, so things must be working out. Radhika is fighting 
her divorce case with her husband, and has moved in with Esha. She is also 
planning to visit her parents for a while. Anuj has apologized, but Radhika is 
in no mood to relent yet.

Priyanka works at Connexions as well, but in six months she will go to 
college for an accelerated one0-year B.Ed. We decided that marriage is at 
least two years away. Right now, we meet often but the first focus is career. 
Her mother faked three heart attacks when Priyanka said no to Ganesh, but 
Priyanka yawned every single time until her mom gave up on the heart attack 
front and closed the Ganesh file.

So looks like things are working out. As for me as a person, I still feel 
the same for the most part. However, there is a difference. I used to feel I 
was a good-for-nothing non-achiever. But that is not true. After all, I helped 
save lots of jobs at a call center, taught my boss a lesson, started my own 
company, was chosen over a big-catch NRI groom by a wonderful girl and now 
I even finished a whole book. this means that i) I can do whatever I really 
want ii) God is always with me and iii) there is no such thing as a loser after 
all.

EPILOGUE 
_____________

‘Wow,’ I said, some story that was.’ She nodded. And had a sip of water 
from her bottle. She held the bottle tight to prevent the water from spilling 
over in the moving train.

‘Thank you,’ I said, ‘it made our night go by pretty quickly.’
I checked the time; it was close to 7 a.m. Our journey was almost over. 
Delhi was les than an hour away. The train was tearing through the night, and 
deep into the horizon, I could see a streak of saffron light up the sky.

‘So, you liked it?’
‘Yes, it was fun. But also, it made me think. I want through a similar 
phase like Shyam, at work and in my personal life. I wish I had known this 
story then. It might have made me do things differently, or at least would 
have made me feel less bad.’

‘There you go. It is one of those rare stories that is fun but can help you 
as well. And that is why I am asking you to share it. You ready to make it into 
a book?’ she said, replacing the cap on the water bottle.

‘I guess. It will take your time though,’ I said.
‘For sure. And I will give you all the people’s details. Feel for to contact 

tem if you want. Through which of them will you tell the story?’

‘Shyam. Like I said, he and his story are a lot like mine. I relate to him a 

lot; I had similar problems. My own dark side.’

‘Really? That’s interesting,’ she said. ‘It is true through, we all have a 
dark side—something we don’t like about ourselves, something that makes us 
angry and something we want to change about ourselves. The difference is 
how we choose to face it.’

I nodded. The train rocked in a soothing, gentle motion. We were silent 

until I spoke after a few minutes.

‘Listen, sorry to say this. There it one issue I think readers may have 

with this story.’

‘What?’
‘The conversation with God.’
She smiled.
‘What’s the issue with that,’ she said.
‘Well, just that—some people may not buy it. One has to present reality 
in a story. Readers always say, “tell me what really happened”. So in the 
context, how is this “God calling” going to fit in?’

‘Why? You don’t think that can happen?’ she said shifting in her seat. 

Her blanket moved, uncovering a book I had not noticed before.

‘Well, I don’t know. It obviously does not happen a lot. I mean, things 

need to have a rational, scientific explanation.’

‘Really? Does everything in life work that way?’
‘I guess?’

‘Well, let’s see. You said you did not know why, but you could really 

relate to Shyam. What’s the scientific and rational explanation for that?’

I thought for a few moments but could not think of a suitable answer.
She saw me fidgeting and looked amused.
‘Please try and understand,’ I said. ‘Calls from God don’t happen a lot. 

How can I write about that?’

‘Okay, listen. I am going to give you an alternative to the ‘God’s phone 

call” bit. A rational one, okay?’ she said and kept her bottle away.

‘What alternative?’ I said.
‘Let’s rewind a bit. So they drove into a pit and the Qualis it trapped, 

suspended by rods, right? You okay with that part?’

‘Right. I can live with that,’ I said.
‘And   then   they   felt   the   end   was   near.   There   was   no   hope   in   life—

Esha right?’ I stood up to shake her hand.
‘Esha? Why did you think I was her?’
‘Because you are so good–looking.’
‘Thanks,’ she laughed, ‘but sorry, I am not Esha.’
‘So? Priyanka?’ I said.
‘No.’

literally and figuratively. Agreed?’

‘Agreed,’ I said.
‘Okay,’ she continued, ‘so let’s just say that, at that moment, Military 
Uncle spoke up. He said “I noticed you guys are in an unusual situation here, 
so I thought I should intervene and give you some advice”.’

‘That’s exactly what God said,’ I said.
‘Correct. And from that point on, whatever God said, you can substitute 
as if Military Uncle said it. He told them about success, the inner call and all 
those other things.’

‘Really? Is that what happened?’ I said.
‘No. I did not say that. I just said you have the option to do that; so that 

everything appears more scientific, more rational. You understand my point?’

‘Yes,’ I said.
‘So, you choose whichever version you want in the main story. It will, 

after all, be your story.’

I nodded.
‘But can I ask you one question?’
‘Sure,’ I said.
‘Which of the two is a better story?’
I thought for a second.
‘The one with God in it,’ I said.
‘Just like life. Rational or not, it just gets better with God in it.’
I reflected on her words for a few minutes. She became silent. I looked 

at her face she looked even better in the light of dawn.

‘Well, looks like Delhi is coming son,’ she said and looked out. The fields 

had ended, and we could see the houses of Delhi’s border villages.

‘Yeah, the trip is over,’ I said. ‘Thanks for everything—err, let me guess, 

‘Don’t tell me—Radhika?’
‘No, I am not Radhika either,’ she said.
‘Well then…who are you?’
She just smiled.
That is when it struck me. She was a girl, she knew the full story, but 
she  was not  Esha,  Priyanka  or Radhika.  Which meant   there   was only  one 
alternative left.

‘So…that means…oh my…’ My whole body shook as I found it difficult to 
balance. I felt down on my knees. Her face shone, and bright sunlight entered 
our compartment in one stroke.

I looked up at her as she smiled. She had an open book next to her. It 
was the English translation of a holy text. My eyes focused on a few lines on 
the page that lay open:

Always think of Me, become My devotes, worship Me and offer your 
homage unto Me. Thus you will come to Me without fail. I Promise you this 
because you are My very dear friend.

‘What,’ I said as I felt my head spin. Maybe the sleepless night was 
catching up. But she just smiled and smiled. She raised her hand and kept in 
on my head.

‘I don’t know that to say,’ I said in the blinding light.
A sense of tiredness engulfed me as the sleepless night took its toll. I 

closed my eyes.

When I opened them, the train had stopped, and I knelt on the floor 
with my head down. The train was at Delhi Station. The cacophony of porters, 
tea sellers and passenger movement rang in my ears. I slowly looked up at her 
seat—but she was gone.

‘Sir, will you get out on your own or do you need help,’ a porter tapped 

my shoulder.

 FINISH

