PUFFIN

Contents

1 The Killing Chamber

2 Gym Girl

3 Macho-Nerds

4 Alt-Tek

5 A Visit to the Outhouse

6 Victoriana

7 The Battering Rams

8 The Red Glove

9 Golgoth Golgoth

10 Mr Charismo

4/571

11 The Old Nichol

12 Unto Dust

Epilogue

Books by Eoin Colfer

AIRMAN

BENNY AND BABE
BENNY AND OMAR

HALF MOON INVESTIGATIONS

THE SUPERNATURALIST

THE WISH LIST
ARTEMIS FOWL

ARTEMIS FOWL AND THE ARCTIC INCIDENT
ARTEMIS FOWL AND THE ETERNITY CODE
ARTEMIS FOWL AND THE OPAL DECEPTION

ARTEMIS FOWL AND THE LOST COLONY
ARTEMIS FOWL AND THE TIME PARADOX

ARTEMIS FOWL AND THE ATLANTIS COMPLEX

ARTEMIS FOWL AND THE LAST GUARDIAN

GRAPHIC NOVELS

ARTEMIS FOWL: THE GRAPHIC NOVEL

ARTEMIS FOWL AND THE ARCTIC INCIDENT:

THE GRAPHIC NOVEL

THE SUPERNATURALIST: THE GRAPHIC NOVEL

6/571

AND FOR YOUNGER READERS

THE LEGEND OF SPUD MURPHY

THE LEGEND OF CAPTAIN CROW’S TEETH
THE LEGEND OF THE WORST BOY IN THE

WORLD

To Finn, Seán, Grace, Jeremy and Joe

The Killing Chamber

BEDFORD SQUARE. BLOOMSBURY.

LONDON. 1898

There were two smudges in the shadows
between the grandfather clock and the velvet
drapes. One high and one low. Two pale
thumbprints in a black night made darker
still by blackout sheets behind the thick cur-
tains and sackcloth tacked across the
skylights.

The lower smudge was the face of a boy,

soot blackened and slightly shivering inside
the basement chamber. This was young

9/571

Riley, brought this very night on his first
killing as a test.

The upper smudge was the face of a man
known to his employers as Albert Garrick,
though the public had once known him by a
different name. His stage name had been the
Great Lombardi, and many years ago he had
been the most celebrated illusionist in the
West End, until during one performance he
actually sawed his beautiful assistant in half.
Garrick discovered on that night that he rel-
ished taking a life almost as much as he en-
joyed the delighted applause from the stalls,
and so the magician made a new career of
assassination.

Garrick fixed his flat murderer’s eyes on
Riley and gripped his shoulder, long bony
fingers pressing through the fabric of the
boy’s coat, pinching the nerves. He didn’t say
a word but nodded once, a gesture heavy
with reminder and implication.

10/571

Think back, said the inclined chin, to your
lesson of this afternoon. Move silently as the
Whitechapel fog and slide the blade in until
your fingers sink into the wound.

Garrick had instructed Riley to haul a dog

carcass from the Strand to their Holborn
rooms and then practise his knife work on
the suspended remains so he would be ac-
customed to the resistance of bone.

Novices have the mistaken impression

that a sharp blade will slip in like a hot
poker through wax, but it ain’t so. Some-
times even a master like myself can come up
against bone and muscle, so be ready to
lever down and force up. Remember that,
boy. Lever down and force up. Use the bone
itself as your fulcrum.

Garrick performed the move now with his
long stiletto blade, tilting his wide, blackened
forehead at Riley to make certain the boy
took heed.

11/571

Riley nodded, then took the knife, palming
the blade across to the other hand as he had
been taught.

Garrick nudged Riley from the shadows

towards the large four-poster bed, on which
lay the nearly departed.

Nearly departed. This was one of Garrick’s

witticisms.

Riley knew that he was being tested. This

was a real killing, a fat purse paid in advance.
Either he snuffed out his first candle or Al-
bert Garrick would leave an extra corpse in
this terrible, gloomy chamber and swipe
himself a new apprentice from the gutters of
London. It would pain him to do it, but Gar-
rick would not see any other option. Riley
must learn to do more than fry sausages and
polish boots.

Riley swept his feet forward, one at a time,

tracing a wide circle with his toes as he had
been taught, searching for debris. It slowed
his progress, but one crackle of discarded

12/571

paper could be enough to awaken his inten-
ded victim. Riley saw in front of him the
blade in his own hand, and he could hardly
believe that he was here, about to commit
the act that would damn him to hell.

When you have felt the power, you can
take your place as my junior in the family
business, Garrick would often say. P’raps we
should have cards of business made up, eh,
boy? Garrick and Son. Assassins for hire.
We may be low, but we’re not cheap.

Then Garrick would laugh, and it was a

dark, faraway noise that caused Riley’s
nerves to throb and his stomach to heave.
Riley moved forward another pace; he

could see no way out of it. The room seemed
to close in around him.

I must kill this man or be killed myself. Ri-

ley’s head started to pound, till his hand
shook and the blade almost slipped from his
fingers.

13/571

Garrick was instantly at his side like a

ghost, touching Riley’s elbow with one
crooked icicle of a finger.

‘From dust thou art …’ He whispered so

softly that the words might have been
formed from the gusts of a draught.
‘And unto dust thou shalt return,’

mouthed Riley, completing the Biblical
quote. Garrick’s favourite.

My own last rites, he’d told Riley one

winter’s night as they looked out on Leicester
Square from their booth in an Italian res-
taurant. The magician had polished off his
second jug of bitter red wine and his gentle-
man’s accent had started to slide off his
words like fish from a wet slab.

Every man Jack of us crawled forth from

the filth and dust, and unto that stuff we
shall return, mark you. I just send ’em back
quicker. A few heartbeats early so that we
may enjoy life’s comforts. That is the way of

14/571

our situation and if you have no steel in you
for it, Riley, then …

Garrick never completed his threat, but it
was clear that the time had come for Riley to
earn his place at the table.

Riley felt the cracks between each board
through the thin soles of his shoes that had
been painstakingly shaved down on the lathe
in Garrick’s workshop. He could now see the
mark in the bed. An old man with a thatch of
grey hair jutting out from under a puff quilt.
I can’t see his face. He was grateful for that

much.

Riley approached the bed, feeling Garrick
behind him, knowing his time was running
out.

Unto dust. Dispatched to dust.
Riley saw the old man’s hand resting on
the pillow, the index finger a mere nub due
to some old injury, and he knew that he
could not do it. He was no murderer.

15/571

Riley cast his eyes about while keeping his
head still. He had been taught to use his sur-
roundings in times of emergency, but his
mentor was behind him, observing Riley’s
every move with his eerie, non-blinking in-
tensity. There would be no help from the old
man in the bed. What could a grey-hair pos-
sibly do against Garrick? What could anyone
do?

Four times Riley had run away and four

times Garrick had found him.

Death is the only way out for me, Riley

had thought. Mine or Garrick’s.

But Garrick could not be killed, for he was

death.

Unto dust.
Riley felt suddenly faint and thought he
would sink to the cold floor. Perhaps that
would be for the best? Lie senseless and let
Garrick do his bloody work, but then the old
man would die too and that knowledge
would weigh on Riley’s soul in the afterlife.

16/571

I will fight, decided the boy. He had little

hope of survival, but he had to do something.

Plan after plan flitted through his fevered
brain, each one more hopeless than the next.
All the time, he moved onwards, feeling the
frost of Garrick on his neck like a bad omen.
The man on the four-poster grew clearer. He
could see an ear now, with holes where a row
of rings must have once pierced.
A foreigner perhaps? A sailor?
He saw a ruddy jaw with tallowy runs of
flesh tucked underneath and a lanyard that
ran to a strange pendant lying on the quilt.

Look for every detail, was one of Garrick’s

lessons. Drink it all in with yer eyes and
maybe it will save your life.

No chance of saving my life, not tonight.
Riley took another sweeping step and felt

his forward foot grow curiously warm. He
glanced down and to his surprise and confu-
sion saw that the toe of his shoe glowed
green. In fact a cocoon of light had

17/571

blossomed round the frame of the sleeping
man, its heart an emerald blaze emanating
from the strange pendant.

Garrick’s words gusted past his ear. ‘Hell’s

bells. Trickery! Dirk him now, boy.’

Riley could not move, petrified as he was

by the spectral light.

Garrick pushed him further into the
strange warm glow, which immediately
changed hue, becoming a scarlet hemi-
sphere. An unnatural keening erupted from
somewhere in the bed, piercing and horrible,
rattling Riley’s brain in the gourd of his skull.

The old man in the bed was instantly

awake, popping up like a wind-up Jack from
his box.

‘Stupid sensor malfunction,’ he muttered,

his accent Scottish, his eyes rheumy and
blinking. ‘I have a pain in my …’

The man noticed Riley and the blade

emerging from his fist like an icicle. He al-
lowed his hand to trail slowly down towards

18/571

the glowing teardrop pendant resting on his
scrawny chest, then tapped the centre twice,
silencing the dreadful wail. The pendant’s
heart displayed a glowing series of numbers
now, seemingly written in phosphorus. Flick-
ering backwards from twenty.

‘Now there, lad,’ said the old man. ‘Hold
on to those horses. We can talk about this. I
have funds.’

Riley was transfixed by the pendant. It was
magical certainly, but, more than that, it was
familiar somehow.

Garrick interrupted Riley’s thoughts with a

sharp prod in the ribs.

‘No more delay,’ he said briskly. ‘Make

your bones, boy. Unto dust.’

Riley could not. He would not become like

Garrick and damn himself to an eternity in
the pit.

‘I-I …’ he stuttered, wishing his mind

would supply the words to extricate both
himself and this strange old man from these

19/571

dire straits. The man raised his palms to
show they were empty, as though fair play
was on offer in this dark room.

‘I’m not armed,’ he said. ‘All I have is un-
limited currency. I can run you up whatever
you need. Easiest thing in the world to print
a few thousand pounds. But, if you harm me,
men will come to make sure you didn’t take
my secrets – men with weapons like you
have never seen.’

The old man spoke no more, as there was a

knife suddenly embedded in his chest. Riley
saw his own hand on the hilt and for a sick-
ening moment thought that his muscles had
betrayed his heart and done the deed, but
then he felt the tingle of Garrick’s cold fin-
gers releasing his forearm and he knew that
his hand had been forced.

‘There it is,’ said Garrick as the warm

blood coated Riley’s sleeve. ‘Hold on tight
and you will feel the life leave him.’

20/571

‘It wasn’t me that did it,’ Riley said to the

man, the words trickling from his lips. ‘It was
never me.’

The old man sat stiff as a board, the

pendant’s chord fraying against the dagger’s
blade.

‘I do not believe this,’ he grunted. ‘All the

people on my tail and you two clowns get
me.’

Garrick’s words crawled into Riley’s ears

like slugs. ‘This is not credited to your ac-
count, boy. Mine was the hand that found
the gap between this pigeon’s ribs, but there
are circumstances here, I’ll give you that. So,
I may allow you another chance.’

‘I do not believe this,’ said the old man

once more, then his pendant beeped and he
was gone. Literally gone. Fizzling into a
cloud of orange sparks that were sucked into
the pendant’s heart.

‘Magic,’ breathed Garrick, his tone ap-

proaching reverence. ‘Magic is real.’

21/571

The assassin stepped sharply back, pro-

tecting himself from whatever the con-
sequences of the vaporization might be, but
Riley did not have the presence of mind to
follow. Still holding the dagger, all he could
do was watch as the cloud spread along his
arm, dematerializing him quicker than a beg-
gar could spit.

‘I am going,’ he said, and it was true,

though he could not know where.

He saw his torso turn transparent and his
organs were visible for a moment, packed in
tight behind translucent ribs, then all the
workings were gone too, replaced by sparks.
The gas that Riley had become was sucked

into the pendant’s heart. He felt himself go
in a vortex that reminded him of being
tumbled by a wave on Brighton beach and of
a boy watching him from the shore.

Ginger. I remember you.
Then Riley was reduced to a single glowing
dot of purest energy. The dot winked once at

22/571

Garrick, then disappeared. The old man and
the boy, both gone.

Garrick reached for the pendant, which

had fallen to the sheets, thinking, I have seen
this device before, or one like it. Many years
ago … But his fingers touched only a smear
of soot left behind where the strange talis-
man had been.

‘All my life,’ he said. ‘All my life …’
He mouthed the rest but did not say it

aloud, as he was alone in this room of
wonders.

All my life I have searched for real magic.

And now I know it does exist.

Garrick was a man of turbulent emotions,

which he usually kept tucked inside his
heart, but now warm tears of happiness
trickled down his face spilling on to his
lapels.

Not simply conjuring. Real magic.
The assassin sank to the ground, his long

spindly legs folding so that his knees were

23/571

level with his ears. Blood soaked through the
seat of his expensive breeches, but he cared
not one jot, for nothing would ever be the
same again. His only fear was that the magic
had gone from this place forever. To have
been so close and to have missed out by a
whisker would indeed be devastation.

I will wait here, Riley, he thought. The

Chinese believe that magic often resides in a
place, so waiting is my only card to play.
And, when the men come with their fabulous
weapons, I will avenge you. Then I will take
the magic and bend it to my will and there
will be none who can stop me.

Gym Girl

BEDFORD SQUARE. BLOOMSBURY.

LONDON. NOW

Chevron Savano had never particularly cared
for the parable of the Prodigal Son. In fact, it
could be said that she hated that particular
story and had to grit her teeth whenever
some lecturing type brought it up.

There is great rejoicing in heaven when a

prodigal son returns to the fold.

Really? Was that so? And what about the
son, or daughter, who has stayed in the fold
and worked through holidays and weekends
to keep the fold safe from organized crime

25/571

and corruption? What about the daughter
who has sacrificed just about everything to
make sure that the fold didn’t come under
threat? What about that daughter? Well, ap-
parently that daughter got shipped off to
London to babysit an overseas witness-pro-
tection safe house, which seemed to be pretty
much a career-killing assignment, as far as
she could tell.

Special Agent Lawrence Witmeyer, her
FBI boss in the LA office, had assured her
that she was not being unofficially punished
for her recent, very public embarrassment of
the Bureau.

‘This is an important assignment, Chevie.
Vital in fact. WARP has a thirty-year history
in the Bureau.’

‘What does WARP even stand for?’ Savano

had asked.

Witmeyer checked the email on his screen.

‘Er … WARP: Witness Anonymous Reloca-
tion Programme.’

26/571

‘That sounds like they threw in Anonym-
ous to fit the name WARP. Otherwise they’d
have WRP and what kind of acronym would
that be?’

‘I guess they wanted to make it sound cool.

You know these name guys.’

Chevie fumed. It was obvious that the Bur-

eau was tucking her out of the way in Lon-
don where the press might not find her.
‘I did my job, you know? I saved lives.’
‘I know you did,’ said Witmeyer, softening

for a moment. ‘Chevron, you have a choice
here. The rest of the group accepted the de-
commissioning package. You’re sixteen years
old, you could do whatever you want.’

‘Except be a Fed.’
‘You were never a real agent, Chevie. You
were an official source of intelligence. That’s
a very different thing.’

‘But it said agent on my badge. My hand-

ler called me Agent Savano.’

27/571

Witmeyer smiled at Chevie as though she

were five years old. ‘We thought you kids
would like a badge. You know, to make you
feel important. But it takes more than a
badge, Chevie.’

‘I was on the fast track to being a proper

agent. I was told that all I had to do was
complete my assignment and a place in
Quantico would be mine.’

‘You were told,’ said Witmeyer. ‘But there
was nothing in writing. Take the deal, Miss
Savano. It’s a good one. And, maybe, if you
keep your head down, we can talk about
Quantico in a few years.’

Chevie was not interested in the deal, but,
if she wanted to be a real Special Agent, Eng-
land was her only option.

‘So I report to the London office?’
Witmeyer looked shiftier than usual.

‘Nope. You report directly to WARP. The
London office works mostly on hate crimes,
that kind of thing. What you’ll be doing is

28/571
not connected to their day-to-day operations.
They won’t even know you’re in the country
unless you call in.’ Witmeyer looked around
excitedly, as though about to deliver amaz-
ing news. ‘In effect, you’ll have nothing to do
but study distance-learning modules for your
high-school diploma.’

Chevie sighed. ‘So it’s back to school for

the little kid.’

‘I hate to tell you this, Chevie, but you are
a kid,’ said Witmeyer, glancing over Chevie’s
shoulder, anxious to shut this meeting down
and join the other agents clack-clacking their
weapons in the bustling office space beyond.
‘I’m giving you double years for your pen-
sion, Chevie. That’s the best I can do. You
can take the pension offer or not. Either way,
if you want any chance of staying on at the
Bureau, you’re going to London.’

So Chevie had been in England for nine
months, babysitting a metal capsule that
looked an awful lot like an Apollo landing

29/571

module that had been stuffed into the base-
ment of a four-storey Georgian house on
Bedford Square in Bloomsbury.

‘What do we actually do here?’ she had
asked her boss on the first morning. His
name, believe it or not, was Agent Orange,
which must be some kind of alias, and he
was grey from head to toe, from his floppy
quiff to his sunglasses and his skinny suit,
right down to his custom-made tasselled
loafers.

‘We attend the pod,’ said the fifty-year-old

agent, his Scottish accent making the word
attend about three seconds longer than it
needed to be.

‘What are we, podites?’ said Chevie, still

jet-lagged and feeling a little belligerent.

Orange took the question seriously. ‘In a

way. Yes, Agent Savano. That pod downstairs
is your church.’

He led Chevie through the lobby area,

which was decked out like a three-star

30/571

English hotel, complete with fire dogs and a
ship in a bottle, down into a basement with a
reinforced steel door. Once they got past that
door, things got real FBI real quick. Chevie
spotted over a dozen cameras in the concrete
walls, there were motion-sensor bugs all over
the corridor, and every type of information
cable known to man was threaded through a
grey conduit.

‘Nice conduit,’ said Chevie drily. ‘Goes

with your … everything.’

Orange coughed. ‘Agent Witmeyer did

mention that I am your superior?’

‘Negative on that,’ lied Chevie. ‘He said we

were partners.’

‘I doubt that very much,’ said Orange. ‘In
fact, I am only referring to you as Agent as a
courtesy. From what I hear, you’re being
stashed in London after the ill-conceived
high-school initiative went south.’

They passed a holding cell and a well-

stocked infirmary, then the corridor widened

31/571

into a circular chamber, which housed a ten-
foot-tall pyramid-shaped metal pod, covered
in refrigeration tubes and complicated
groups of blinking lights.

‘This is WARP central,’ said Orange, pat-

ting the casing fondly.

‘It looks like a sci-fi Christmas tree,’ said
Chevie, doing her best not to be impressed.
Orange checked a number of readouts; it

really looked like he knew what he was
doing.

‘I was expecting this attitude,’ he said,

without facing Chevie. ‘I read your file. Most
informative. Graduated top of your special
group. Record test scores in spite of your
age. Problem with authority figures, blah
blah blah, so much so movie stereotype.’
Orange turned finally to Chevie. ‘We both
know why you’re here, Agent Savano. Your
group was an embarrassment to the Bureau
and a potential legal minefield, because of
your age. You messed up for the cameras in

32/571

Los Angeles, so they sent you overseas on a
quiet posting, but, in spite of what you may
think, what we do here is important, Agent.
There shall be no cutting of slack because of
your youth.’

Chevie glared. ‘Don’t worry, Agent. I don’t

expect slack and I don’t cut any.’

Orange thrust a hand inside the pod,

checking the temperature. ‘I’m glad to hear
it. It is more than likely that your un-
slackened talents will never be called upon.
On most days a man probably won’t come
out of the WARP pod, so you don’t have to
do anything except study for your diploma.
But on the off-chance that this very special
man does emerge from that hatch when I am
out, you need to keep him alive. Just keep
him alive and call me. That’s it.’

‘Is the man in there now?’
‘No, Agent. The pod is empty at the mo-

ment, and has been for thirty years.’

‘So it’s a magic pod?’

33/571

Orange smiled in a way that told Chevie

that he knew quite a lot that she didn’t. ‘Not
magic, exactly. Magical, maybe.’
‘Yep, that makes a lot of sense.’
‘That’s all the sense you’re going to get out

of me today, Agent Savano. Maybe when
you’ve proven yourself as a serious podite I’ll
share some details. Until then you live on-
site, you never stray more than a mile from
the house, and I watch the pod while you
sleep.’

‘Where do I sleep?’
‘The flat upstairs. You’ll love it.’
‘Where do you sleep? In bonnie Scotland?’
Orange smiled again. ‘The top floor. I get
the penthouse. One perk of being the boss.’
He handed Chevie a smartphone. ‘All the

numbers are pre-programmed. And there are
apps for the alarm and surveillance. You see
this alarm-button icon? Don’t press that if
you don’t want all hell breaking loose. Got
it?’

34/571

Chevie took the phone. ‘I got it, Agent.’
‘Good.’ Orange turned back to the pod, his

fingers tripping across multiple old-fash-
ioned plastic keyboards bolted on to its sur-
face. ‘If you do well here, keep your head
down for a couple of years, then let’s see if
we can’t sneak you back into the US without
the press noticing. By that time you will be
almost old enough to apply for Quantico.’

Chevie scowled at Orange’s grey back. In

two years she would be ancient. Almost
nineteen.

‘Wow, that would be great. Two years’

babysitting. I am so glad I did all those fire-
arms courses.’

Orange left the pod chamber without look-
ing back. ‘Keep trying, Agent,’ he called over
his shoulder. ‘Some day you will say
something that is actually funny.’

I hate that guy already, thought Chevie

Savano.

35/571

Now, several months later, Chevie had lost
touch with most of her friends in California,
while she waited for some mystery guy to
pop out of a space pod in the basement. She
hadn’t fired her weapon once, even on a fir-
ing range, which made her extremely
nervous, and she realized that she was not
only talking to herself on a regular basis but
answering herself too.

‘You need to stop that,’ she said to herself.

‘People will think you’re crazy.’

Really? What people? It wasn’t as if she

had talked to anybody other than Orange for
over six weeks. She had even celebrated her
seventeenth birthday on her own with a
chocolate brownie and a single pathetic
candle.

The house on Bedford Square had become
like her second home, or maybe her prison.
She knew every inch of the building better
than she knew her own cottage on the
Malibu Bluffs, where she could legally live

36/571

alone when she turned eighteen in less than
a year.

There was one room in the Bedford Square
house that she did love, and this was the stu-
dio. At some point in the house’s history a
dancer had converted a large part of the
second floor into a dance studio, complete
with a mirror wall and barre. Not that Chevie
Savano was a dancer, but she was a gym girl,
and it had only taken three weeks of nagging
to get Orange to sign off on a few thousand
pounds for weights and machines.

On this evening, which was to prove event-

ful but had started out pretty same-old
same-old, Chevie had spent her last stress-
free moments for quite some time looking at
herself in the mirror and thinking, Girl,
where is your life going?
It was hardly a mystery.
You know where your life is going. Do

your time watching the pod and hopefully
the powers that be back in the US will forget

37/571

all about Los Angeles and allow you a shot
at becoming a real agent. You still have
friends in Quantico.

Usually federal agents had to be twenty-

three years of age minimum before they
could wear the shield, but Chevie had been
part of a trial programme to combat the in-
creasing problem of terrorist infiltration of
high schools. A hand-picked group of state
wards had spent a semester in Quantico, and
had then been placed undercover in various
schools attended by suspected sympathizers,
in a strictly observational capacity. No infilt-
ration, no confrontation. Chevie had spent
six months in LA keeping tabs on an Iranian
family whom the Feds believed were trying
to start a cell in California. The assignment
had ended with a public disaster outside a
Los Angeles theatre where Chevie had used
her training to disarm a drunken teen who’d
been threatening the Iranians. Unfortunately
the teen had been wounded in the process

38/571

and the entire fiasco was captured on a cam-
era phone. The hothouse programme was
hurriedly shut down and Chevie was whisked
off to London for babysitting duty so a senate
committee would not cotton on to the fact
that the agent involved in the Hollywood
Centre Affair was a minor.

•••

Chevie did thirty minutes of cardio, thirty
minutes of core, then shadowboxed in the
mirror until her Lycra leggings and vest were
dark with sweat. She was in good enough
shape to whip the top ten percent of law-en-
forcement officers anywhere in the world.
And she could shoot an apple off a tree at a
hundred paces.

Do I look seventeen?
As far as Chevie could see, she looked
pretty much the same as she had at sixteen.
At five feet six she was a little short for an

39/571
FBI agent, but she was lithe and fast, with a
delicate oval face and the glossy black hair
typical of Native Americans.

I am going to get through this assignment,
she thought. They don’t get rid of Chevron
Savano so easily. There are worse things
than boredom.
Which was the last routine thought she was
to have for a while.

Riley could not for the life of him have de-
scribed his predicament. Had there been a
Bible handy, he could not have testified on it
as to whether he was alive or dead. His
thoughts were a jumble of fear and confu-
sion, and he found that the tough, stoical
core of his spirit, which had kept him going
through the terrifying years with Garrick,
was totally absent.

His senses were spun together like the
muddy streams flowing into the Thames, and
he felt an urge to vomit that was somehow in
his mind and not his gut.

40/571
Is this the pit? he wondered. Has the devil
claimed me?

He ordered his hand to wave, but nothing
happened; or perhaps it did and he could not
see it.

It seemed somehow that there was a light
up ahead, glowing like a streetlamp. Though
Riley could neither see the light nor calculate
in which direction “up ahead” lay, he some-
how knew these things to be true.
I am about to arrive, he realized.
Chevie stood in front of the mirror and
watched her image split in two. For the
briefest moment she thought that she had fi-
nally gone stir-crazy; then she realized that
the mirror had cracked from roof to ceiling.

That’s bad luck for someone, probably

me.

Then more cracks appeared, jagged black
lightning rents that divided the room into
sections.

41/571
Could it be an earthquake? Do they have

those in London?

The mirror cracked once, twice, a thou-
sand times with a sound like automatic
weapon fire. The cracks raced past the edges
of the mirrors, streaking across the walls.
Chevie finally moved when the lacquered
floorboards beneath her sneakers began to
splinter and fall in torn chunks through to
the hallway below.

“What the hell . . . ?” she cried, picking a

safe path to the door.

Overhead the lights flickered, then ex-
ploded, showering Chevie with glass and
sparks. Through the window, she could see
streetlamps exploding all along Bayley Street
and around the square itself. Beyond the
square the blackout rippled down toward
Covent Garden and Soho as though some gi-
ant night creature was swallowing chunks of
light.

42/571
What is happening to the power? Orange

will know.

But Orange was out. She was the on-duty

agent.

A

bulletproof

front-facing

window
cracked, allowing noise in from the outside
world. Metal shrieked as cars collided on
Tottenham Court Road, and the cry of pan-
icked people rose up into the dark London
clouds, which had lost
their streetlight
underglow.

Whatever is happening,

it started here,

Chevie realized.

She ran to the wall safe, punched in the
code number, and pulled out her Glock 22 in
the shoulder holster she wore with an extra
strap to pull it tight to her left side for a
smooth cross draw. She expertly donned the
holster and drew her weapon.

Chevie held the gun straight-armed in a
two-handed grip, staring fixedly through the
green tritium contrast points of her night

43/571
sight, hoping that nothing would pop up and
force her to shoot.

I don’t even know what the guy looks like
who might come out of the pod. If I shoot the
witness, they will never let me back into
California.

Chevie ran down the upper landing, stick-
ing close to the wall. Around her, bricks
grated and plaster fell in chunks.

That chunk looks like Texas,

thought
Chevie, because you can’t control what the
mind throws up.

Emergency lighting blisters flickered on,
bathing the interior in industrial yellow light.
Good, thought Chevie. I can see whatever

happens, which will hopefully be nothing.

Something else occurred to her.
Agent Orange. He’s probably going to

blame me for this.

Chevie rattled her gun and told herself to
focus, pulling a tight turn into the stairwell.
She made her way carefully down the two

44/571
flights of stairs. The basement steps before
her were relatively intact, but the door had
buckled and the central panel seemed to
have melted.

What could melt a steel door? wondered
Special Agent Savano, and this unspoken
question was answered when a bolt of light-
ning sizzled through the glowing edges of the
melt hole and took a good-sized lump out of
the wall.

Lightning. Okay.
Chevie realized that she had squatted on
her hunkers with her weapon aimed at the
door.

That’s right, Agent. You can shoot the

lightning.

She gave it a few minutes, until it seemed
as though the indoor lightning bolts were
over and done with, then hurried down the
remaining narrow steps.

45/571
There was nothing left of the basement
door but its frame; the melted edges had
already solidified.

In a move that would have made Cord Val-
licose, her Quantico instructor, proud, Chev-
ie dived through the frame, rolled, and came
up with her gun pointed down the corridor.
She would later realize that the sharp edges
of the door had scraped her all down one
side, but at that moment she didn’t even feel
the scratches.

There was no obvious threat beyond the
ruined door, just dust and devastation. The
WARP pod itself had broken free of
its
brackets and was pointing nose-first down
the basement corridor. It looked for all the
world like a small spacecraft had crashed in-
to the house.

Which would make about as much sense
as what is actually happening: a big ma-
chine is sucking the juice out of central
London.

46/571
Chevie swore to herself that when Orange
arrived, she was going to hold him at gun-
point until he told her exactly what this
1970s-style pod had to do with witness
protection.

The pod usually reminded Chevie of a sci-
ence museum exhibit, with its retro design
and faded metallic finish, but now the ma-
chine seemed alive and totally functional,
whatever its function might be. The thick
power cables at
its base hummed and
crackled like electric eels, and a dozen light
clusters flashed complicated patterns in total
unison.

This must be the day the important man

comes out of the pod, which is impossible.

“You there, in the . . . er . . . pod,” she
called, feeling more than a little silly. “Come
out with your hands up.”

No one emerged from the metal pyramid,
but a hatch vented gas, then dropped with a

47/571
loud clang to the floor. Ghostly sheets of
steam floated from the interior.

Well, that’s new, thought Chevie, checking
with her thumb that the safety on her gun
was off.

Inside the pod, orange light flickered, cast-

ing weird, shifting shadows on the wall.

There’s something alive in there, Chevie

realized.
Riley felt every molecule in his body co-
alesce, compacting until his senses returned.
I am alive, he rejoiced, until the bitter cold
settled upon him, and his teeth chattered
with a violence that cracked a molar.

His hand still gripped the murder weapon,
which was even now lodged in the chest of
the murdered old geezer.

I cannot let go, he realized. My fingers are

locked.

Riley tried to take stock of his surround-

ings, as Garrick had taught him.

48/571
He was contained in a metal tank with nu-
merous fairy lights a-flashing on the cold
walls.

I have brought this magical gent back to
his people with a blade in his body and my
hand on the blade. They will see me swing
for this.

Escape, his instincts told him. Escape be-
fore you are in the dock for murder or,
worse, Garrick finds a way to find you.

But

the cold held him like a boulder
strapped to his back; and Riley knew that,
like thousands of street urchins every winter,
soon he would sleep and then he would die.
Chevie rose on her haunches, then moved
stealthily toward the hatch, keeping her gaze
pointed through the gun sights.

“Come out with your hands up,” she
ordered once more, but again nothing
emerged from the pod.

It may have taken three seconds to reach
the hatch, but to Chevie it felt like an age.

49/571
Everything slowed down as adrenaline
coursed through her system, stimulating her
heart rate, dilating her blood vessels and air
passages. She saw sparks tumbling slowly
from the conduits and steam clouds seemed
to stand still in the air.

Keep your focus, Special Agent, she told

herself. There is someone in that pod.

She could hear scrabblings inside.
Was it a dog? An animal?
How do I warn an animal?
Suddenly time sped up again, and Chevie
found herself in front of the hatch. Cold radi-
ated through the opening and orange sparks
moved unnaturally toward one another, co-
alescing into something solid.

Am I aiming my gun at a ghost?
But

there was something else inside,

huddled shivering in the cramped interior.

“Don’t move!” shouted Chevie, using her
most serious FBI voice. “Freeze, or I will
shoot.”

50/571
A weak voice came from somewhere inside
the orange cloud. “I am freezing, miss. My
word on it.”

Before Chevie could wonder why the
strange accent had her brain singing “Con-
sider Yourself,” the cloud dissipated, reveal-
ing the figure of a boy huddled over an old
man.

The boy was alive but the man was not,
probably because of the knife jutting from
his chest. Being dead was not the only thing
wrong with this guy: the blood congealing on
his torso was yellow, and one of his arms
seemed to be that of a gorilla.

Don’t think about it now. Do the job.
“Okay, kid. Move away from the dead . . .

thing.”

The boy blinked, searching for the source
of the orders. “I never done it, miss. We need
to leave this place. He’ll be coming for me.”

51/571
Chevie made a split-second decision,
reaching into the pod and yanking the kid
out by his collar.

Chevie held him on the floor with the palm

of her free hand.

“Who’s coming, kid? Who’s coming for

you?”

The boy’s eyes were wide. “He’s coming.

Garrick. The magician. Death itself.”

Great, thought Chevie. First a monkey guy,
and now Death itself, who is also a magician.
Chevie felt another presence in the room
and looked up to see Agent Orange in all his
gray glory moving down the corridor toward
the pod.

“That’s a good way to get yourself shot,
Orange. What are you doing here anyway? I
never pressed the panic button.”

Orange pulled off his silver sunglasses and
surveyed the devastation.
“Well, Agent
Savano, when half of London blacked out, I
guessed the WARP pod might have been

52/571
activated.” Orange hesitated six feet from the
hatch. “Did you look inside, Chevie?”

“Yes. I looked. Am I gonna die from radi-

ation poisoning now?”

“No, of course not. Is there . . . a man in

there? Is my father in there?”

Orange’s father? This posting cannot get

any weirder.

Chevie returned her gaze to the restrained
boy. “There were two people inside. This boy
and a man. I really hope the man is not your
father.”

But the way this day has been going, I

just bet that monkey guy is Orange’s dad.

Chevie realized that she had never really
trusted Agent Orange, but at this moment
she actually felt sorry for him.

Macho-Nerds

BEDFORD SQUARE. BLOOMSBURY.

LONDON. 1898

Albert Garrick sat slouched on the cold base-
ment floor, eyes tightly closed, preserving
the ghost
image of
the orange sparks
branded on his eyelids.

Magic is real.
It was a revolutionary thought in this in-
dustrial age of logic and reason. It was diffi-
cult to maintain belief in what he’d just seen
once the evidence had disappeared. It would
be much simpler to dismiss the entire event
as delusion, but he would not.

54/571
I am being tested, he realized. My night of
opportunity has arrived, and I must find
within myself the mettle to seize my chance.

Garrick’s faith had always been in bone,
blood, and butchery—in things he could
wrap his fingers around and throttle, sub-
stantial things. There was nothing ethereal
about them, but this was something differ-
ent, something extraordinary.

Magic.
Garrick had been fascinated by magic for
as long as he could remember. As a boy he
had accompanied his father to the Adelphi
Theatre in London and watched from his
perch in the wings as his old da swept the
stage and kow-towed to the talent. Even
then, this deference had angered the young
Albert Garrick. Who were these people to
treat his father with such disdain? Hacks,
most of them—hacks, hags, and hams.

Among the ranks of the players there was a
hierarchy. The singers were top dogs, then

55/571
the comics, followed by the chorus pretties,
and finally the conjurers and animal acts. Al-
bert watched, fascinated, as the petty dramas
played out every night backstage. Divas
threw tantrums over dressing-room alloca-
tion or the size of opening-night bouquets.
The young Garrick saw cheeks slapped,
doors slammed, and vases hurled.

One particularly vain tenor, an Italian
named Gallo, decided that the magic turn
was not affording him due respect, and so he
decided to ridicule the man at his birthday
celebration in the Coal Hole public house on
the Strand. Garrick witnessed the encounter
from a stool beside the fireplace, and it made
such an impression on the lad that he could
recall the incident even now, almost forty
years later.

The magician, the Great Lombardi, was
built like a jockey, small and wiry, with a
head that was too big for his body. He wore a
pencil mustache that made him seem a touch

56/571
austere, and a slick helmet of pomaded hair
added to this impression. Lombardi was also
Italian, but from the southern region of
Puglia, which Gallo, a Roman, considered a
land of peasants— an opinion he shared of-
ten and loudly. And, as Gallo was the star
turn, it was understood that Lombardi would
stomach the constant jibes. But Gallo should
have known that Italian men are proud, and
swallowed insults sit
like bile in their
stomachs.

On that particular evening, having treated
the assembly to a raucous rendition of the
“Drinking Song” from La Traviata, Gallo
sauntered across the lounge to the magician
and draped his meaty arm across the little
man’s shoulders.

“Tell us, Lombardi, is it true that the poor
root

of Puglia fight with the pigs for
vegetables?”

The crowd laughed and clinked glasses,

encouraging Gallo to further mischief.

57/571
“No answer? Well then, Signor Lombardi,
tell us how the women of the south borrow
their husbands’
razors before
Sunday ceremonies.”

straight

This was too much: the taciturn illusionist
quickly drew a long dagger from his sleeve
and seemingly stabbed Gallo upward under
the chin, but no blood issued forth, just a
stream of
scarlet handkerchiefs. Gallo
squeaked like a frightened child and col-
lapsed to his knees.

“On the subject of razors,” said Lombardi,
pocketing his trick blade, “it seems as though
Signor Gallo has cut himself shaving. He will
survive . . . this time.”

The joke was most definitely on the tenor,
who, humiliated beyond bearing, took the
morning ferry from Newhaven to France,
reneging on his contract and ensuring that
he would never work a music hall in Great
Britain again.

58/571
It was a beautiful revenge, tied together
with the bow of wordplay, and the young
Garrick, perched by the fire, vowed to him-
self, Someday I, too, will have the power to
command such respect.

It took six months of fetching and carry-
ing, but eventually Albert Garrick persuaded
the Great Lombardi to take him on as an ap-
prentice. It was his door to a new world.

Garrick thought of his vow now, sitting in
the killing chamber of the foreboding house
on Bedford Square.

Someday I, too, will have the power.
And that day had finally come.
Garrick dipped his fingertips in the small
pool of black blood on the bedsheets, then
watched the thick liquid run down his long
pale fingers. The patterns reminded him of
war paint worn by the savages in Buffalo
Bill’s Wild West Extravaganza, which he had
taken Riley to see.

59/571
Someone will come to clean this mess, he
thought, and daubed his cheeks with stripes
of a dead man’s blood.

They will come, and I will take their ma-

gic and their power.

BEDFORD SQUARE. BLOOMSBURY.

LONDON. NOW

Special Agent Chevie Savano was feeling
pretty under-informed. The first thing she
did when she got the strange boy under lock
and key in a holding cell was to storm into
the pod room and prepare to have it out with
Agent Orange. Her indignation seeped out of
her like water from a sponge when she saw
her partner kneeling at the hatch, staring
morosely at the body inside.

“It’s . . . my father,” he said, without look-
ing up. “He must have been dead or dying
going into the wormhole. The rapid energy
loss might explain the multiple mutations.”

60/571
Chevie had never expected to hear the
words wormhole and mutations spoken out-
side of the movies.

“You need to tell me everything, Agent

Orange.”

Orange nodded, or maybe just allowed his
head to droop. “I know, of course. But first
we have to call in a cleanup team. I don’t
know what my father left behind. Get me the
London office and tell them to send a full
hazmat team. It’s probably unnecessary, but
I have to go back and check.”

“Go back where? What is that pod? Some
kind of transporter? If we had that techno-
logy, surely the public would have found
out.”

Orange’s laugh was hollow. “There are a
thousand Web sites dedicated to suppressed
technology; two have even posted blueprints
of the pod. People believe what they see in
the Apple store, not what some nutjob con-
spiracy theorist tells them.”

61/571

“So it is a transporter?”
Orange was finding these questions a
strain. “After a fashion. I’m upgrading your
clearance. Open my folder on the network.
The password is HGWELLS. One word, all
caps. Those files will tell you all you need to
know.”

Chevie was halfway upstairs to her com-
puter when she remembered why the pass-
word seemed familiar.

H. G. Wells. The Time Machine.
A time machine? she thought. That’s

insane.

But then, no more insane than a monkey

arm and yellow blood.

Chevie called in the hazmat team request
to the London office and was given the run-
around for nearly fifteen minutes until she
invoked Agent Orange’s name; after that she
was put straight through to the hazardous
materials’ section and was assured that a
team would be on site in less than an hour.

62/571
No sooner had she put the phone down than
a brigade of London’s finest firefighters burst
through what was left of the front door, de-
termined to hack their way through the
building with large axes. They were politely
but firmly turned away by a dozen black-clad
Fed musclemen who had arrived consider-
ably earlier than the hazmat team and pro-
ceeded to set up a perimeter around the
house on Bedford Square.

Once Chevie was sure that the perimeter
was secure, she told the chief muscleman’s
mirrored sunglasses that she was taking ten
minutes in the operations center.

Just enough time for me to find out what
the blazes is going on here. Chevie was sur-
prised to find that she was handling the day’s
events pretty well. She had always been cool
under pressure, but
this was different.
Something sci-fi was going on here.
It
seemed that the world as she knew it was not
the world as it was.

63/571
Hold it together , she told herself. And

read the file.

Orange’s folder had been sitting on the
local network’s shared folders list since she’d
arrived in Bedford Square, but she had never
been able to access it until now. Chevie felt a
little nervous even floating the cursor across
the icon.

What am I going to find out? If there is
time travel, then why not aliens? Why not
vampires? I really don’t want to turn into
one of those movie FBI gals who hunt freaks
of nature. Those gals always end up with a
limp.

Chevie opened the folder and was dis-
mayed to find over two hundred files lined
up alphabetically inside. Chevie changed the
view so that the files were listed in order of
date and picked one with the title “Project
Orange Overview.” She began to read, for-
cing herself to go slowly and absorb every
word. After twenty minutes of absolute

64/571
concentration, she leaned back in her office
chair and covered her mouth with one hand
in case a hysterical giggle leaked out.

You have got

to be kidding me, she
then removed her hand and
thought,
shouted toward the door, “You have got to be
kidding me!”

Orange was downstairs in the small med-
ical room. He had wrestled his dead father
from the pod’s interior and laid him out on a
steel gurney, covering all but his head with a
white sheet. When Chevie entered the room,
he was gently sponging the old man’s
forehead.

“Why do you think that kid killed your
father?” “I don’t know. The Timekey video
doesn’t show much. One second the boy is
not there, and the next he is. More than
likely he’s a thief.”

“A thief from the past. What are we going

to do with him?”

65/571
Orange wrung the sponge till his knuckles
were white. “Again, I don’t know. No one has
ever brought back a local before. We could
shoot him—I have a gun.”

“Shoot him, good one. Are you okay,
Orange? Maybe I should take over as agent
in charge?”

Orange smiled wryly, and Chevie thought,
not for the first time, that her partner had a
wide variety of smiles, none of them very
happy.

“No need for that, Agent, I am perfectly

fine.”

“But that’s your father.”
“In name only. I haven’t seen this man for

a long time. The Bureau is my family.”

“Wow. I think that’s the saddest thing I’ve

ever heard.”

Another smile, this one rueful. “I think you

may be right.”

“Do I still have to call you Agent Orange?”

66/571
“No. Professor Smart will be fine. Or just

Felix.”

“Professor Felix Smart. Son of missing
Scottish quantum physicist Charles Smart.
You have the same nose.”

“But not the same blood, thank goodness.
Yellow blood sets off the scanner at airports.”
Chevie ignored the feeble attempt at hu-
mor. “So what happened to your father? I
didn’t get that far in the files.”

Felix Smart gazed at his father’s face as he
spoke. “My father discovered that Einstein’s
quantum theory was essentially correct and
that he could stabilize a transversable worm-
hole through space-time using exotic matter
with negative energy density.”

“I knew someone would get around to that
eventually,” said Chevie with a straight face,
then wished that she could activate the
WARP pod so that she could go back five
seconds and not crack a funny when her
partner’s father was lying dead and mutated

on the table.
outside?”

“Can we talk about

67/571
this

“Of course.” Felix Smart led her into the
corridor, talking as he walked. “The uni-
versity in Edinburgh funded my father for a
few years, then he moved to a larger facility
in London in conjunction with Harvard Re-
search. By this time I was already with the
FBI in Washington. Once it became clear
that to me that Father was getting some-
where, I persuaded my section chief to take a
look. You wouldn’t know it to listen to my ac-
cent, but I lived in Washington with my
mother after my parents divorced. The Bur-
eau consultants loved the concept and threw
money at Father, and I was appointed as
project liaison. We saw real results, really
quickly. We sent through cameras first, and
animals. Then death-row prisoners.”

Chevie was not shocked. She knew that it
had been common practice for government
departments
to

testing deals

to offer

68/571
condemned prisoners in the last millennium.
The government had tested everything from
rubber bullets to telepathy pills on convicts.

“The tests were pretty successful. There
was a small number of aberrations, usually
on the return trip, but less than one percent,
so acceptable in a scientific sense. Then
some bright spark had the idea that we could
stash valuable witnesses in the past.”

Chevie raised a finger. “Just say that last
part again. I want to nail it down in the real
world.”

“Even John Gotti couldn’t have put a hit
on someone in the nineteenth century, right?
We sent the witnesses back into the past with
a handler and then we would bring them
home to testify.”

“So, the FBI does witness protection in the

past?”

“Yes. Would you like me to say it one more

time?”

“No. I got it.”

69/571
“Of course it’s incredibly expensive, and
the power needed for a single jaunt
is
enough to light a small country, so witnesses
were always huge security risks and involved
in trials that were tied up for a few years. In
the ten years that WARP actually functioned,
we only sent four witnesses back to various
periods. Certain high-ranking intelligence of-
ficers felt the government was being short-
changed, and so it was strongly suggested by
a Colonel Clayton Box, a very enthusiastic
specialforces type, that the tech be used for
black ops.”

“Wet work? Assassinations?”
“Exactly. Imagine if we could go back and
take out terrorists while they were still in
high school. My father did not like that idea
and, no matter how much I tried to reassure
him, he grew more and more paranoid. He
saw conspiracies everywhere and was con-
vinced that his research was being stolen, so
one morning he simply disappeared into the

70/571
past, taking all programmed Timekeys and
the access codes with him. Father could
come back if he wanted to, but we couldn’t
go after him. Not without the precise al-
gorithms and codes that my father kept in
his brain. He invented the language that the
pods speak, so without him WARP was fin-
ished. My father was the key, and even after
all this time we haven’t been able to hack his
machines. We lost Terrence Carter, the key
witness in a huge corruption case. And his
bodyguard was stranded with him. Not to
mention the fact that there are millions of
dollars’ worth of WARP pods lying around
wormhole hotspots like so much scrap. The
irony was that Colonel Box and his entire
team disappeared during an operation a few
weeks later, so the threat to WARP was
neutralized.”

Chevie took a long moment to absorb this
deluge of information, then asked a sensitive

71/571
question. “So the yellow blood and the simi-
an arm were two of your aberrations?”

Felix Smart answered calmly, as though
having a dead father with ape parts were an
everyday occurrence. “The odds against two
aberrations were steep. Wormhole mutations
happened a few times with some of the pris-
oners. Father’s theory was that the time tun-
nels had memory, and sometimes
the
quantum foam got muddled. Molecules were
mixed up. Our test subjects made it through
without any significant mutations over
ninety-nine percent of the time. But we saw
extra limbs, extrasensory perception, a dino-
saur head once.”

Chevie found it a struggle to keep a

straight face. “A dinosaur head?”

“I know—insane, isn’t it? Velociraptor, I

think. We never found out for sure.”

“The dinosaur died?”
Felix Smart frowned. “Technically the ve-
lociraptor committed suicide. There was

72/571
enough of the scientist still inside there to
realize what had happened, so he grabbed a
gun and shot himself in the head. Terrible
mess.”

Chevie felt a sensation something like jet

lag settling around her mind.

It’s mild shock, she realized. My brain
doesn’t believe a word it’s hearing. Still,
might as well play along; it will all be over
soon.

“So, what’s next, Orange . . . Professor?”
Before he could answer, Felix’s phone
buzzed with a message. He drew a flat silver
communicator from his pocket and read the
screen. “Hazmat is here. So, next we clone
my father’s Timekey to go back to wherever
he was hiding out, and maybe find some
notes and clean up whatever mess he left be-
hind. We don’t want some local finding one
of my daddy’s designs and building super-
lasers a century ahead of schedule. You stay

73/571
here and review the video evidence on the
original Timekey’s video log.”

Chevie watched her partner/boss as he
strode toward the stairway, back in action
mode less than an hour after stumbling on
the body of his estranged father.

Cold, she thought.
Riley lay on a low bunk in the holding cell.
He held his hands before his face and
clenched them into fists to stop them
trembling.

I am in another world was his first
thought. His second was Garrick. He’ll be
coming for me, you can bet your last shilling
on that.

Riley tried to think about something else.
He’d never had a friend, as far as he could
remember, and he was used to bolstering his
own spirits. But sometimes, in his dreams,
he saw the tall boy with red hair and a wide
smile, and he had developed a habit of

74/571
talking to that boy in his head as a way of
calming himself.

I’m alive, ain’t I, Ginger? And maybe this
prison is far enough away. Far enough to
flummox Garrick himself.

But Riley didn’t believe that, no matter

how many times he repeated it.

Riley tried to stop thinking about Garrick,
but it was hard to cheer yourself up when
Garrick’s mug was the main image in your
brain.

So think of something else, then.
What about the yellow blood busting from
that old geezer’s ticker? And didn’t he have
monkey parts? And what about that shame-
less lass in the black undergarments? This
was indeed a confusing new world, and a
strange-looking prison cell.

But every cell has a door and every door

has a lock.

Garrick’s words.

75/571
Undeniably those words had a wisdom to
them. Riley forced himself to stand and walk
the half dozen paces to the door. If this was
indeed a prison, then it could be escaped
from, just as Edmond Dantès had escaped
from the dreaded Château d’If in one of Ri-
ley’s favorite novels, The Count of Monte
Cristo.

In recent years, books had become Riley’s
passion and had helped him through the
long, lonely hours in the Holborn theater
that he and Garrick used as their digs. It was
Garrick’s custom to disappear for days on
end, and on his return he expected a clean
house and a hot dinner. And while the assas-
sin sat in the kitchen, blowing on his beef
stew, his knees knocking on the underside of
the table, he would twirl a spoon regally,
which was Riley’s signal to begin the even-
ing’s entertainment. Riley would then regale
his master with an approximate summary of

76/571
whichever novel he had been tasked with
reading.

Lively now, son, Garrick often called.
Make me believe that I’m in between the
pages my own self.

And Riley would think, I am not your son,

and, I wish I was in between these pages.

When

Garrick

had

initiated

this
storytelling practice, Riley had hated it and
grew to resent the books themselves; but The
Adventures of Sherlock Holmes changed all
of that. The book was simply too fascinating
to be despised. Riley could no more hate Ar-
thur Conan Doyle than he could hate the
parents he could not remember, though Gar-
rick reminded him often that they had left
him hanging in a flour bag on the railings of
Bethnal Green workhouse, where the magi-
cian had found him and rescued him from
slum cannibals.

I could certainly do with some advice from
Mr. Holmes at this present moment, thought

77/571
Riley, rapping on the door with a knuckle. A
genius detective is exactly what the doctor
ordered—that or a housebreaker.

The cell door itself was standard prison is-
sue, heavy steel with a window of sufficient
dimensions for a medium-sized dog to
squeeze through were it not glazed.

Or an escapologist.
Riley knew he could wriggle through that

gap if there was a way to get the glass out.

Garrick has forced me through tighter

holes.

But the glass extended into the door itself
on all sides and was well milled, with no
warps or bubbles.

These people know their glass, Riley had

to admit. The lock, then?

The lock was of a design that baffled Riley.
There was no space for even the narrowest
pick to penetrate. Riley tested the keyhole
with his fingertip and felt a nail crack for his
trouble. The door had no visible hinges, and

78/571
there wasn’t enough room for so much as a
draft to squeeze through underneath.

This would be a challenge, even for Albert

Garrick.

Then again, Garrick would be coming in,
not going out. And getting in was always
easier, especially if you could knock off the
person with the key and take it from them.

Riley shivered. He swore that he could
sense Garrick drawing closer, and his ap-
proach seemed to chill the air.

The door clacked and swung slowly in-
ward, and Riley held his breath, so convinced
was he that Garrick had come to tuck him in
for a Highgate nap. But it was not the magi-
cian; instead the half-clothed lass who had
locked him in stood framed in the doorway.

“Step back from the door, kid,” said the
girl. “Lie on the bed with your hands behind
your head.”

Her tone was amiable enough, but there
was a large pistol in her delicate fingers, and

79/571
in Riley’s opinion,
this particular pistol
seemed capable of shooting the bullet and
perhaps digging the grave as well. This was
not a pistol one argued with, so Riley did as
he was told and looked sharp about it.

The girl seemed satisfied and stepped in-
side the room, leaving a tantalizing wedge of
freedom on display behind her. Riley briefly
considered bolting for the outside world, but
then light glinted on the gun’s barrel, and the
boy decided he could wait
for the next
opportunity.

“Miss,” said Riley. “Have I come to rest in
a traveling Wild West Show? You appear to
be a savage Injun.”

Chevie glared down at the boy along the
sights of her weapon. “We don’t use the term
savage Injun anymore. Some people take is-
sue with being described as savages. Go
figure.”

“I saw Buffalo Bill’s Extravaganza a while

back. You have the look of an Apache.”

80/571
Chevie half smiled. “Shawnee, if you have
a burning need to know. Now, enough small
talk. There’s a bar behind your head; grab it
with your right hand.”

Riley did was he was told, and having an
inkling of what was coming, spread his grip
to widen the span of his wrist, but to no
avail.

“Sure, kid. Oldest trick in the book. What?
You think I graduated from Idiot College last
semester?”

“Why do you refer to me as ‘kid’? We are of

the same age or thereabouts.”

Chevie leaned across Riley and snapped a

metal cuff over his wrist.

“Yeah? Well, I’m seventeen, actually. And
you don’t look a day over twelve.” She rat-
cheted the cuff tight, hooking the other end
on the bed railing.

“I am four and ten,” retorted Riley. “And
due a stretch any day. This time next year I’ll
be towering over you, miss.”

81/571
“I am thrilled to hear that, kid. Until that
great day dawns, you’ve got one hand for eat-
ing and scratching your behind, though I re-
commend you eat first.”

Now that the boy was secured, Chevie
wedged the door open with a chair so she
could keep an eye on the pod room, just in
case
something else decided to come
through.

Riley jerked his chain a few times to test

its strength and Chevie grinned.

“Everybody does that, but let me tell you,
those cuffs have a tensile strength of over
three hundred and fifty pounds, so you are
wasting your time.” Chevie shook her head.
“There’s a lot of time wasting going on
around here today; you have no idea.”

Riley suddenly felt like crying, and almost
as suddenly felt ashamed of himself. Crying
would not get him away from Garrick; back-
bone was the order of the day.

82/571
“Miss, you need to let me loose before he

gets here.”

Chevie pulled up a steel chair, spun it on
one leg, and sat, leaning her elbows on the
back.

“Oh, yeah. He. Death, right? He is Death,

and Death is coming. The bogeyman.”

“No, no bogeyman. Garrick is flesh right
enough. He done for old yellow-blood, and
he’ll be doing for us soon if we don’t get a
little wind under our sails and leave this
place, wherever it is.”

Chevie almost pitied this filthy urchin until
she remembered the first time she’d laid eyes
on him. “Tell you what, kid. Why don’t we
forget this Death character for a minute and
focus on why you killed the old man?”

Riley shook his head. “Not me, miss. I nev-

er did. It was Garrick.”

Chevie was pretty good at reading people,
and this kid’s face was wide, with heavy
brows, a pointed chin, and a mop of hair that

83/571
could be any color underneath the dirt. His
eyes were a startling blue, at least the left one
was; the right eye seemed to be mostly en-
larged pupil. In short, an innocent kid’s face,
not a murderer’s face. Unless he was a
psychopath.

“Oh, yes. Garrick. Mr. Death. Or perhaps

Mr. Nobody.”

“You’re mocking me, miss. You think I’m a

liar.”

Chevie scowled. “Stop with the miss stuff,
kid. You’re making me feel like a grandmoth-
er. Call me Agent Savano. Don’t go thinking
we’re friends, now; I’m just being civil, and I
don’t want to judge you until all the facts are
in. And, to answer your geographical query,
we are in London, England.”

The boy was obviously disturbed by this
news. “London, you say? Is it true? But then
he is already here. There is no time, Agent
Sa-van-o. We must get away from here. Can
you summon the orange magic?”

Orange magic. Agent Orange,

84/571
thought
Chevie, hearing the penny drop at last. Now I
get it.

“Listen, kid. If this Garrick person does ex-
ist, and he is stuck on the other end of the
orange magic, there is no way in heaven he’s
going to show up here. Understand?”

The boy’s odd eyes grew no less wide or
wild. “No way in heaven, but perhaps a way
in hell.”

Chevie snorted. “You Victorians are pretty
melodramatic, aren’t you? What’s your
name, kid? I can’t go on calling you kid all
day.”

“I am called Riley,” said the boy.
“Something Riley? Or Riley Something?”
Riley shrugged. “I don’t know this, Agent
Savano. Garrick never knew either. One
name was all that was needed. The note left
with me simply read, ‘This is Riley, a waif in
need. Look after him.’ I was on the point of
being boiled up by cannibals when he found

85/571
me. Killed the bunch of them, he did, made
the last one chew on a hunk of his own leg as
a lesson.”

“I am totally not

liking this Death,
magician, one-name calling, alleged time-
traveler killer.”

Riley sighed. This lady was not giving Gar-
rick his due, but how could she? Garrick was
a unique creature, and his wrath could not be
appreciated without being seen or experi-
enced. Riley would have to grind a plan from
his own brain, and perhaps distract his
captor for a moment to buy time to think. Ri-
ley raised himself a little and nodded at a tat-
too on Agent Savano’s bicep.

“What is this arrowhead marking, Agent?

Are you a sailor?”

Chevie tapped the blue mark. “This is the
Chevron, and I was named for it; but that’s a
story for another day, when I visit you in
prison, maybe.”

The lady had not fallen for his ruse.

86/571
“I am innocent, miss . . . Agent. You must

let me go.”

Chevie stood up, twirling the chair under
her palm. “I’ll have to get back to you on
that, once I review the video. I’ll bring you
some McDonald’s in an hour. Until then,
don’t go anywhere, time traveler.”

Riley watched the door close, thinking,

Time traveler?

And, What is a video?
And, Why would she bring me Scotsmen?

What help would that be?

The hazmat team was unlike any hazard-
ous materials team that Chevie had ever
seen. There was no sign of the white virus
overalls, or wi-vi suits as the federales had
nicknamed them; instead the four agents
were dressed in what looked like synthetic
rubber, and they seemed pretty ripped for a
science squad.

87/571
Chevie jogged along the basement corridor
to Agent Smart, who was strapping a cross-
bow across his chest.

“What are these guys? Chemistry ninjas?

And why are you bringing that bow?”

“So many questions, Agent Savano.”
“Yeah, well I’ve been a little out of the loop
around here. Nobody mentioned time-travel-
ing witness protection even once before
today. Now everyone’s jumping into the past
except me.”

“You don’t have hazardous materials train-
ing, Chevie. This squad does, plus they have
serious combat skills, too. As for our outfits
and equipment, our clothes are hemp-based
and will biodegrade in the open air, and the
weapons are high-end design but not too sci-
fi for the locals, should we meet any. We go
back, clean up, and beam home. And if
something does get left behind in the field,
then there’s no domino effect.”

88/571
“With respect to the . . . er . . . domino ef-
fect, why don’t you go back a little early and
rescue your father? Now that you have his
Timekey and know exactly where he was.”

Agent Smart shook his head. “You didn’t
read the entire file, did you, Chevie? Worm-
holes are a constant length to the nano-
second. Think of them like straws; you move
the front and the back moves too. So, if an
hour has passed here, then an hour has
passed there. This particular wormhole
measures just under a hundred and twenty
years, so that’s how far we’re going back.”

“How long will you be gone?”
“Not long. Ten minutes, tops. Any more
than that and we’re dead, and you’re to shut
this thing down, dismantle the pod, and go
home to California.”

“Way to think positive, Agent. What are we

going to tell the fire brigade this time?”

89/571
Smart pulled a full face mask over his
head. “Not a problem. I’ve powered up the
dampers; no blackouts this trip.”

Chevie surveyed the time squad, clad head
to toe in padded black body armor, bristling
with blades and bows.

“You guys look futuristic, even with the old
hardware. What happens if you get caught
before the hemp melts? The boy, Riley,
swears there’s some kind of magical killer
back there.”

Smart’s voice was muffled by the filter
over his mouth. “Ah, yes. The bogeyman. It’s
classic transference, Savano. Blame Mr.
Nobody. Even if there is some Fagin person
back there, I think my boys can handle him.”
Chevie thought so too. These guys looked

like they could take down a small country.

“What if there’s an earthquake, and your

boys are stuck in the rubble?”

“Well, that’s what the red button is for,
though these suits have been in storage for

90/571
fifteen years, so I hope the mercury switches
still work.”

This statement brought the gravity of the

situation home.

“Self-destruct?” said Chevie. “You are kid-
ding me? This isn’t an episode of The
Twilight Zone.”

Agent Smart’s shoulders jerked as he
chuckled. “Yes, it is, Chevie. That’s exactly
what it is.”

Chevie did not chuckle; she had a sense of
humor, but selfdestruct jokes were not to her
taste.

“So I gotta just twiddle my thumbs here
while you machonerds are off straightening
time dominoes?”

Smart froze. “Macho-nerds? Straightening
time dominoes? Do you know something,
Agent Savano? I think you have grasped the
essence of what’s going on here, and I never
really thought you would. Some people’s
biggest muscle is in their trigger finger, but

91/571
you have held it together admirably during
this stressful time, and without shooting a
single person.”

Chevie stared. Was Smart taking the time
to make fun of her? Or was he simply a
robot?

“Are you sure you should be heading up
this operation? Maybe I should relieve you?”
Suddenly the four ninja-nerds pulled their

sidearms from holsters on the coat hanger.

“Don’t say the R word, Chevie,” advised
Felix. “This mission is pretty important.
Nobody wants to end up not existing because
my father polluted the timeline.”

Chevie backed down not one inch. “Yeah,
well, you tell your boys that when they get
back, I’ll see them in the gym, two at a time.”
The hazmat team lowered their guns, gaz-
ing at Chevie, heads cocked in surprise, like
lions challenged by a little mouse.

“They don’t say much, your lab buddies.”

92/571
Smart opened a series of laptops on a met-
al table; thick cables flopped onto the floor
from the rear of the computer bank and
wound their way across to the WARP pod.
He quickly tapped in long code sequences.

“That’s why I like them, Agent. They just

do their jobs, no small talk.”

The laptops were old and chunky, with
raised letters on the keyboards that glowed
green and were not in the usual qwerty or-
der. Chevie tapped one casing,
to check
whether it was actually wooden.

Smart slapped her hand away. “Don’t poke
the equipment, Agent,” he admonished.
“This stuff is ancient alternative tech. We
don’t even have the parts to repair this any-
more.” “Shoot, I got some wood in my
room.”

Smart ignored her comment and contin-
ued his systems check. As he typed, the pod
shook itself awake, vibrating and venting
steam like a very old fridge. The banks of

93/571
square lights flickered in complicated pat-
terns, and the fat power lines buzzed with
barely contained megawatts of electricity. In
spots, the rubber melted, exposing fizzing
wires.

The entire setup reminded Chevie of old

sci-fi series she had seen on cable reruns.

This is how people thought the future
would look on last-century TV. Cheap and
flashy.

Laser beams shot out from several nodes
on the pod, connecting to form a lattice
around the ship.

Lasers? thought Chevie. It’s a time ma-
chine, all right. I feel like I’m going back to
the seventies.

It took several minutes for the WARP pod
to warm up. It shrugged, coughed, and
hummed into life, six electric motors clatter-
ing into action at its base. Chevie was quite
glad that she was not among the group wait-
ing to step into its belly to be dematerialized.

94/571
Eventually the pod hovered maybe half an
inch above its trailer and the various lights
flashed in perfect harmony, except for the
ones that popped and crackled.

“Okay,” shouted Smart above the electrical
din. “We have ninety-seven percent stability.
That’s good enough.”

Ninety-seven percent? thought Chevie. I
bet those hazmat guys didn’t see the monkey
arm, or they’d insist on waiting for a hun-
dred percent.

The black-clad hazmat

team climbed
through the hatch into the vehicle and sat on
a low bench that ran around the wall. They
were a cramped bunch in there and suddenly
looked a little less tough, in spite of their
scary suits and weapons. Chevie was re-
minded of her little foster brother and the
night he and his buddies had camped out in
the backyard, and were all tough as nails un-
til something brushed against the tent at 2
a.m.

95/571
Smart gave Chevie the Timekey he was
holding. “I’ve cloned keys for me and the
team, but this is still the prime key with all
the access codes. In fact, the entire history of
the project is on this key. Don’t lose it.”

Chevie hung the key around her neck. “I’ll
keep it under my pillow beside my photo of
you.”

Smart lowered his face mask, and Chevie
saw that for the first time in nine months, he
was genuinely smiling. “I’m going to miss
you when this is all over, Savano. None of
these guys ever gives me lip. Having said
that, if you foul this up, I will have you sta-
tioned in the Murmansk office.”

“We don’t have a Murmansk office.”
“Oh, we’ve got one, but it’s really deep un-

der the ice.”

“I get the message. Don’t worry, Felix. The
boy is secure, and I won’t let anyone else
touch this Timekey.”

96/571
Smart fixed his mask. “Good. Then in ten
minutes, you get to go home early with a
commendation and a clean record. But if any
strangers come through that pod, remember
your training: always go for the chest shot.”

“I remember,” said Chevie. “Chest shot.

The biggest target.”

They shook hands, something that Chevie
did not particularly want to do, not because
of any germ phobia, but because in the bore-
dom of the last nine months she had de-
veloped a fondness for action movies—and as
any film buff knew, when two cops develop a
grudging respect for each other, then the
supporting cop is about to die.

And if anyone’s a supporting player

around here, she thought, it’s me.

Smart ducked into the pod, squeezing onto

the bench beside his teammates.

He counted down from five with his fin-
gers, then the entire team reached into the
middle and overlapped hands. As they all

97/571
touched, Smart tapped the pendant around
his neck, the pod bloomed with orange light,
and there was a loud whoosh, which immedi-
ately collapsed in on itself, creating a vacu-
um that Chevie could feel even from her pos-
ition behind the computers.

The noise rose to hurricane level, and
Smart’s crew jittered as their molecules were
torn apart. They turned orange, then split in-
to orange bubbles, which spiraled into a
mini-cyclone that spun faster and faster in
the center of the pod. Chevie swore she could
see body parts reflected in the bubbles.
Reflected from where? Sub-atomia?
The wormhole opened like a drain of light,
a little smaller than Chevie had expected, if
she was honest, yet it was big enough to
slurp down the atoms of the hazmat team
and their leader. The bubbles spiraled down,
forcing themselves into the pulsating white
circle at the pod’s base. It shone like a silver
dollar, then spun as though someone had

98/571
flipped it, each revolution sending a blinding
beam across the basement.

Chevie closed her eyes. When she opened
them again, the wormhole had closed, leav-
ing behind a wisp of smoke in the shape of a
rough question mark.

You and me both, Chevie thought, step-
ping forward warily, around the bank of
computers, and peering into the pod’s belly.
It was cold in there, and blobs of orange gel
shivered on the steel walls.

I hope those blobs weren’t important body

parts.

Smart and his team were gone, there was

no doubt about it.

I didn’t believe Orange’s story until this
moment, Chevie realized. Not for a second. I
am not sure if I believe it now.

But there was no denying that her partner
had disappeared, whether into a wormhole
as planned, or boiled to jelly by old-school
laser beams.

99/571
I can worry about all of this when I am
like a

then: act

home in Malibu. Until
professional.

Chevie decided to use the ten minutes to
check through the video on Smart Sr.’s
Timekey. See if there was anything more she
could add to her report. And, you never
know, there was always the ghost of a chance
that Riley was telling the truth. But even if he
was, there was no way the bogeyman he was
so afraid of could make it to the future.

Chevie suddenly saw a flash of Riley’s face:

blue eyes wide, soot-blackened brow.

No way in heaven, but perhaps a way in

hell.

She shivered. Maybe that boy was lying,
but he sure believed he was telling the truth.

Alt-Tek

BEDFORD SQUARE. BLOOMSBURY.

LONDON. 1898

Albert Garrick hummed a nursery rhyme
he’d learned on the knee of an Irish woman
who had nannied for half of the Old Nichol
back in the dark times. If there was one truth
that Garrick held like iron in his core, it was
that he would never return to the Old Nichol,
not even to dodge the noose.

“I would swing before I’d go back to that
cesspit,” he vowed quietly through clenched
teeth, as he did most nights.

101/571
And in this case the term cesspit was not
simply a storyteller’s exaggeration. The Old
Nichol Street rookery was bordered by the
common sewer and had been spared by the
Great Fire, but the area had not seen refur-
bishment for its pauper residents since that
time. A true cesspit. A great ditch of putre-
faction, dotted with sties, hovels, and dung
heaps, where the air sang with the sharp tang
of industry and the lusty howls of hungry
babes.

Hell on earth.
As Albert Garrick hummed, the words
fluttered from the dark shadows of his past
and the assassin sang them in a sweet tenor:

One little babby, ten, twenty,
Only last week I had wages plenty
Then Nick came a-stealin’ my babbies
away
Now I begs for me supper every
bloomin’ day.

102/571
Garrick gave a dour chuckle. A cholera
nursery rhyme, hardly the subject to soothe a
little one’s fears, and more often it would
keep him awake than send him to sleep, but
then Garrick had lost a family of nine to the
disease, and it would have claimed him and
his father had clever Papa not slit
the
Adelphi Theatre’s caretaker’s throat in an al-
ley one night, then turned up to claim his
place the following morning. The caretaker
had been Father’s bully chum; but it was life
or death, and the Thames was chockfull of
best friends. Barely a tide passed without
someone’s bosom pal washing up on the
mud banks at Battersea.

For over a year the father and son slept in
a secret space behind the Adelphi’s green
room until they could afford digs far away
from the Old Nichol.

Garrick knelt on the elaborate fleur-de-lis
rug in front of him, banishing memories of
his past and concentrating on this night’s

103/571
business. Carefully he placed the tips of his
blades on the central petal of the pattern. Six
knives in total, from stiletto to shiv to four-
sided bo-shuriken throwing knives; but Gar-
rick’s favorite was the serrated fish knife that
had lived under his pillow since childhood.

He tapped the wooden hilt fondly. It was
true to say that Garrick held this blade in
higher regard than any person of his ac-
quaintance. Indeed, the magician had once
risked prison by dallying to reclaim the blade
from a mark who had snarled the knife in the
farrago of his entrails.

But I would sacrifice even you for a taste
of magic , he admitted to the knife. In a
heartbeat and gladly.

Garrick knew that men would come to this
place when their own magician was returned
to them a cold corpse. The old man had
promised as much—if you harm me, men
will come to make sure you didn’t take my
secrets—and Garrick believed those words to

104/571
be true. The old man’s secrets were magical
ones, and the men would come, because ma-
gic was power, which in turn was knowledge.
And he who controlled knowledge controlled
the world. Knowledge was a dangerous thing
to have skittering around loose, and so men
would come.

A hanging circle of bats clattered in the
broad chimney flue, wings slapping like a
tanner’s brush.

Perhaps they sensed something? Perhaps

the great moment was upon them?

Come, gods of magic. Come and meet Al-
bert Garrick’s steel, and we shall see if you
die like men.
Garrick pocketed his blades and melted into
the basement shadows by the grandfather
clock.

When a traveler emerges from a wormhole
and the quantum foam solidifies, there are
quickly forgotten moments of clarity when
the time traveler feels at one with the world.

105/571
Everything is all right and outta sight , as
Charles Smart quipped in the famous talk at
Columbia University during his U.S. lecture
tour. When those little virtual particles an-
nihilate, a person gets literally plugged into
the universe.

Of course this was just quantum-jecture,
another of Professor Smart’s terms. There
could never be any proof of these brief mo-
ments of oneness, as they dissipated almost
instantly and were all but impossible to re-
cord. Nevertheless, Professor Smart was cor-
rect: the “Zen Ten” does exist and was being
experienced by the hazmat team as their
bodies solidified and left them standing in
short-lived awe,
like kids at a fireworks
display.

The team stood on the bed, which Charles
Smart had rigged as a receiver, wreathed in a
wispy curtain of orange light that jerked back
toward the wormhole that hovered behind
them like a floating diamond.

106/571
“Hey,” said the point man, crossbow
dangling loosely from his fingers. “Do you
guys see the parallels between Einstein and
Daffy Duck now? That duck knew what he
was talking about.”

There would have followed another eight
seconds or so of cosmic wisdom had not Gar-
rick realized intuitively that fate would never
again drop such a ripe opportunity in his lap.
He attacked like a death-dealing dervish,
springing from his hiding place onto the
four-poster bed, where his opponents stood
like cattle in the slaughterhouse pen.

Use yer bows now, my boys , he thought.
Garrick’s arrival on the receiver bed
smashed the cocoon of bliss, and the hazmat
team was instantly vigilant—all but Smart,
who was still shrouded in quantum particles,
which caused his extremities to warp and
shudder as though underwater.

Garrick’s first strike was the sweetest, as it
drew hot red blood. He had been anxious

107/571
that his steel might encounter armor of some
kind, but though the material was exception-
ally hardy, it could not resist the singing
sharpness of his trusty fish knife. The man
who had spoken of ducks sank to the sheets,
his heart popped in his chest. A second
black-clad newcomer arranged his fists in an
approximation of a boxer’s stance and de-
livered a lightning hook to Garrick’s solar
plexus.

The assassin grunted in surprise, not pain.
These dark demons were fast, but not magic-
ally so, and it would take a sight more gump-
tion in a blow to penetrate the flat boards of
muscle on Garrick’s torso.

Garrick had studied many of the fighting
arts, from Cornish wrestling to Okinawan
karate, and chosen what he wanted from
each one. These skills he augmented with his
own speciality: sleight of hand. His was a
style that could not be clinically recognized

108/571
and defended against, as there was only one
master and only one pupil.

The magician engaged his unique skill and
palmed the blade across to his left hand. The
second man in black followed this move with
a tilt of his head, but he did not cotton to the
throwing spike that sprouted in Garrick’s
right hand as though growing from the vein.
By the time the man in black caught the
deadly glint from the corner of his eye, it had
already begun the flashing flight toward its
target. Not toward the second man, but to-
ward a third while the second was distracted
by Garrick’s left hand, which held the fish
knife.

The second man realized this too late and
had barely time to watch the throwing spike
puncture his comrade’s chest before the fish
knife slashed across his own jugular.

So much blood, thought Garrick. An ocean

of blood.

109/571
Three of the hazmat team were down. The
fourth opted to attack rather
than be
slaughtered where he stood. This guy was a
real bruiser, who was famous in the FBI for
having punched out a world boxing champi-
on in a Vegas bar fight. He sent out a light-
ning right cross that would have floored an
elephant and mentally mapped out his next
three punches.

He would not need them. Garrick ducked
under the punch, rolled the man across his
back, and met him on the other side with a
prison shiv. The agent did not die immedi-
ately, but he would not tarry long.

One left now, the one clothed in magical
light. The man with true power. Garrick felt
himself salivate.

How to steal the magic? What was the
technique? An incantation, perhaps? Or did
they need a pentagram? Everything Garrick
had tried in the past to suck even a spark of
power from the ether now seemed garishly

110/571
jokish. Candles and weeds, animal sacrifices.
He had been a mere child scrabbling around
in the dark. Here was true power in front of
his eyes, if he could take it.

Garrick pocketed the blade and dipped his
icicle fingers into the orange light until he
found the man’s neck. The tendons looked
taut as gibbet ropes, but to the touch they
were softer than butter. Garrick saw his own
fingers somehow merge with the stranger’s
body, and with the merging came a sharing
of souls.

I know this man, he realized. And he

knows me.

With his free hand Garrick ripped off the
man’s mask, to demand the knowledge that
he could not find in the man’s mind.

“Tell me how to take your magic,” he de-

manded. “Give me your secrets.”

The man seemed in a stupor. He saw but
did not see, his gaze soft and blotted, a look

111/571
Garrick had seen on the faces of soldiers
emerging from chloroform.

I know you, Albert Garrick, said the man,
though his mouth did not move. I know
what you are.

It seemed to Garrick, as he listened to
Felix Smart’s thoughts, that he had joined
utterly with this man. Smart’s entire life was
compressed into a bitter capsule and shoved
down his throat. Memories exploded inside
him, more vivid than his own. He tasted
blood and sweat, smelled gunpowder and
rotten flesh, and felt his own secret shames
and regrets
that he had never dared
acknowledge.

This is the magic, he realized, even as his
past life crawled into his gut like a worm. To
see, to know.

“Give it to me,” he said, tightening his grip
around the man’s neck. “I want it all, d’you
hear?”

112/571
“They sent you to Afghanistan,” gasped the

man, the words grunting out of him.

So surprised was Garrick to hear this that

he actually engaged.

“Not many know that, Scotsman. I took up
the queen’s rifle, killed my share, and came
back a hero.” Garrick shook his head, dis-
lodging the orange man’s probes. “Quiet with
your talk, man, unless it
is to divulge
secrets.”

The man closed his eyes—sadly, it seemed
to Garrick. “I can’t. And I know what you in-
tend to do, so . . .” His hand moved toward a
red button on his belt, and Garrick gripped
the wrist in his fingers.

A quantum circuit was completed and in-
formation exchanged on every level. Know-
ledge, secrets, and the very essence of be-
ing—all whipped between the two men,
locked in grim combat. Garrick struggled to
hold on to himself in this blizzard of aware-
ness. He saw and understood everything,

113/571
from amoebas to microwaves. He felt his
own self as a collection of jittering neutrons
and understood the concept. He saw the sur-
face of
the moon, an earth ruled by
dinosaurs, matchbox-sized computers, the
Scottish man of science, the little Shawnee
lass, and the boy Riley.
thought,

thought
skittered away from him on a tide of
quantum foam. He cocked his head to follow
it, and the Scotsman used the distraction to
press the red button on his belt.

Riley, he

and the

Garrick felt mercury shift and smelled the
explosives and knew that there was only one
way to perhaps escape death. He crushed
Felix Smart’s barely solid windpipe in his
fist, then tumbled them both into the tiny
pulsing circle of light that lay in the center of
the mattress.

It did not seem possible that two grown
men could fit into that tiny space, but the
wormhole was pure physics and so did its

114/571
work, dematerializing the battling pair just
as the tiny suitbomb exploded.

Charles Smart,

the godfather of

time
travel, had speculated in his
famous
Columbia lecture that if a spontaneous en-
ergy shift were to be introduced into the
quantum stream, then the effects on local
travelers could be spectacular, producing, in
theory, a being imbued with all the powers
not yet granted to humanity by evolution. Or,
as he put it, Clark Kent could indeed become
Superman.

The world could see superheroes.
Or supervillains.

BEDFORD SQUARE. BLOOMSBURY.

LONDON. NOW

Chevie Savano plugged Charles Smart’s
Timekey into the weirdly pronged socket on
the bank of antique computers in the pod
room.

115/571
A message appeared on the screen: warm-
ing up. Warming up? What was this? A
photocopier?

Alt-tech was a term Felix liked to bandy
about. Alternative technology. What he
meant was old junk that didn’t work properly
anymore.

Warming up? The next thing you knew,

this contraption would ask for more gas.

Eventually a menu shuddered into life on
the small convex screen. The kind of screen
nerd grandpas collected to play Pac-Man.
The operating system was unfamiliar to her,
a set of consecutive menus that reminded
her of a family tree.

Well, I guess even Apple and Microsoft

can’t control the past, she thought, smiling.

It did seem as though everything was on
this Timekey. The entire history of the pro-
ject,
including previous jumps, personnel
files, pod locations, and, of course, Professor
Smart’s video diary.

116/571
Chevie selected the proximity-alert record-
ings with an honest-to-God wooden mouse,
and scrolled through to the last couple of
minutes.

It was a grainy picture, colors muted by
the darkness, but she could clearly see the
boy Riley approach stealthily, eyes and teeth
shining out of his blackened face. The blade
in his hand was visible too, just the top edge
where the soot failed to cover it.

Suddenly the screen glowed green, and Ri-
ley’s features were underlit like a Halloween
campfire storyteller. The boy looked pretty
guilty, it had to be said: sneaking into an old
man’s house in the dead of night, armed with
a wicked-looking blade. The alert changed
from green to red as Riley drew closer, and
the view flipped as Professor Smart sat up.

There was a little chitchat, which was im-
possible to make out, then Riley struck and
everything went orange. End of story. QED,
the check’s in the mail, the prosecution rests.

117/571

Or does it?
Chevie freeze-framed the moment when
Riley lunged. It seemed a little weird. Chevie
knew all about knife fights, and the boy’s
stance seemed off to her. He was leaning
backward while moving forward. This was
not an easy thing to do. Also, the look on his
face was pure horror.

Either this kid is schizophrenic, or he had

a little help.

But there was no one else in the dark
room. No one that she could see, at any rate.
Chevie was tempted to pound the ancient

hardware.

Alt-tech, my butt. I can’t even clean up the

image a little.

Then Chevie had an idea: maybe she
couldn’t clean up the image on this box of
bolts, but if she could transfer it . . .

Chevie pulled her smartphone from her
waistband and took an HD shot of
the
screen. Simply transferring the image to her

118/571
phone seemed to sharpen it up a bit, but it
was still dark and fuzzy.

Dark and fuzzy, not a problem.
Chevie had no fewer than four photo ma-
nipulation apps on her phone, and she selec-
ted one to run the picture through.

In a way it was therapeutic to have such a
mundane task to perform, which could mo-
mentarily help her to pretend she was work-
ing on a normal case.

She ordered the phone to sharpen, lighten,

and boost color.

It took a few seconds, then another person
appeared from the shadows, behind Riley to
the right. A tall man, slightly bent, with dark,
close-set eyes that were devoid of expression,
like those of a corpse. The face was bland,
made more so by the soot smeared across his
features, and Chevie couldn’t imagine ladies
ever swooning before this guy, but the eyes
gave him away. Chevie had seen those dead

119/571
eyes before, on the faces of serial killers in
the Quantico files.
Chevie shivered.
So that’s what it feels like when your blood
runs cold, she thought. I’ve heard the expres-
sion but never understood it.

This was the man Riley had spoken of, no
doubt about it. Death, the magician. This guy
looked capable of anything.

Yet it was Riley holding the knife. The boy

was still guilty.

But . . .
Chevie double-tapped the image to enlarge
it, then centered the crosshairs on Riley’s
knife arm, enlarging again. It seemed con-
clusive. A hand holding a knife, a forearm,
wrinkle shadows at the elbow.

Wrinkle shadows . . .
Chevie enlarged again until

the pixels
blurred and saw that the shadows were not
shadows.

Not unless shadows have knuckles.

120/571
There were four long fingers gripping Ri-

ley’s arm, forcing his hand.

The boy is innocent! she thought, releasing
a breath that she’d not realized she was
holding.

Looking into that blackened face, with
those flat eyes, Chevie was glad that this man
could not, contrary to what Riley believed,
make his way into the future.

All the same, she thought. Maybe I will
stand guard over the pod with a round in the
chamber. Just in case.

Chevie tugged the Timekey from its socket
and hung it around her neck for safekeeping.

Just in case.
Special Agent Lawrence Witmeyer, her
boss in the L.A. office, was a man with a par-
able for every occasion. Many involved a
made-up Fed called Agent Justin Casey, who
was always prepared and never got himself
shot because he forgot to follow protocol.

121/571
Chevie snorted. Agent Justin Casey. A hel-

luva guy.

And if she hadn’t been a little distracted by
her reminiscing, she might have noticed an
angry blister of red energy boiling at the
heart of the WARP pod and had time to duck
before the explosion.

Unfortunately she was distracted and
didn’t see anything until the computers set
off a warning alarm. By then it was already
too late.

Garrick and Smart

tumbled into the
wormhole together, but as separate people.
Once inside, Garrick held on to his con-
sciousness, but Smart’s heart had already
stopped beating and his brain was winding
down. The effect of the self-destruct bomb
was to excite some particles that were not
meant to be excited and corrupt the trans-
ition, in effect merging Smart’s last neurons
of consciousness with Garrick’s and some of
his physical characteristics too, which the

122/571
WARP pod would rebuild around his altered
DNA.

A new being with accelerated evolution.
All the gifts that millennia of adaptation
would bring.

For a length of time that was immeasur-
able and yet instant, Garrick felt himself dis-
embodied in the wormhole. He could not see
anything and spent the time flicking through
Smart’s memories.

I have killed both father and son, he real-
ized, and wished that he had received pay-
ment for the second murder.

This thought of payment set Garrick think-
ing about the shady cove who had contracted
him for the murder of Charles Smart.

Did he know, Garrick wondered, about all

of this magic?

On a normal outing there would have been
no complications. Garrick would have slid in
and out like a gust of wind, but Riley had
been along for his first kill. It had been a trial

123/571
run for the lad, plain and simple. Garrick had
kept an eye on the comings and goings for a
few days, then sent Riley in through an up-
stairs window. He would never have risked
his reputation or purse taking the boy along
had there been even a smell of peril.

All of these magical happenings are luck

or fate.

Though Garrick could not now believe in
either magic or fate. Atoms collided or they
did not, simple as that. Atoms, thought Gar-
rick, delighted with the new understanding
that the merge with Felix Smart had brought
him. I can see their systems in my mind’s
eye.

Garrick was not anxious or ill at ease over
this curious transition. He knew now exactly
what was happening and what awaited him
in the future. Nor was he disappointed over
the absence of “real magic,” for was this not
magic all around him now? Wasn’t this new
knowledge power without measure? Garrick

124/571
was too enchanted by his new state to take to
brooding.

The future awaits and, with my new

awareness, I will be master of it.

These were issues to be decided in a future

Garrick knew well.

Three-D movies and pocket-sized com-
puters. Automatic weapons and Japanese
robots. My oh my.

On this occasion there was no gentle ma-
terialization in the house on Bedford Square,
no wisps of ethereal mist or shuddering pas-
sengers in the pod. This time a red ball of li-
quid appeared, maybe the size of an apple,
and then it exploded in a grisly mess, vomit-
ing sheets of blood into the basement, ac-
companied by a sonic boom and wave of con-
cussive force. The ring of dampers set
around the pod exploded like fireworks at a
rock concert.

Chevie was lifted like a leaf before a hur-
ricane and tossed backward the length of the

125/571
basement corridor. She touched down a
couple of times before crashing into a stack
of her own packing boxes under the stairs,
which she had been meaning to fold flat
since she’d arrived. The boxes tumbled on
top of her, leaving a triangular tunnel for her
to keep an eye on the pod. And it was only
one eye; Chevie’s left eye closed on impact
and her senses longed to desert her, but she
held on long enough to see what else came
out of the pod.

What came out was a sac of flesh and
bone, lurching across the blood-slick floor,
fighting with itself. Chevie saw a hand
punching through the membrane and a face
pressing against the viscous surface.
“Smart,” called Chevie weakly.

Then the face bubbled and changed, be-

coming that of the man on the screen.

I am in a nightmare. Wake up, Chevron

Savano. On your feet.

126/571
If this was a dream, it was incredibly real-

istic, engaging all of her senses, even smell.

I can’t remember smelling in a dream

before.

Chevie knew it was no dream. The tiles
that smooshed her jaw and cheek were too
slick with lumpy blood and ichor.

The jumble of body parts clicked and
rattled with labored breaths, drawing bolts of
energy from the pod. It shook like a wet dog,
shaking off globs of its cocoon until the fig-
ure of a man emerged. The man oozed into a
standing position,
then spread his arms
wide, flexing his fingers as though they were
wondrous inventions.

Chevie felt her legs piston weakly as they
sought traction on the floor, but even that ef-
fort made her head spin.

Riley. I need to save that boy.
The figure seemed to hear the thought and
shrugged off the remains of the distended
bubble of sloppy substance,
transitioning

127/571
from solid to gas and floating in clouds to-
ward the ceiling.

Clothes grew on the man, literally appear-
ing stitch by stitch, crawling like worms
along his solidifying skin. The garments were
a curious blend of hemp, hazmat leggings,
and a Victorian gent’s overcoat, topped off by
a bowler hat that seemed as out of place as a
bow tie on a shark.

“Riley,” said the man, as if testing his
mouth. “Riley, my son. I have come for you. I
know where you are incarcerated. The futur-
ist Smart showed me.”

Smart showed him, thought Chevie, and
she knew in her gut that the hazmat team
was gone.

Chevie remembered having a gun, which
was possibly in its holster at her side, but
that seemed like an impossible distance for
her hand to travel. It was all she could do to
keep one eye open. She saw the magician

128/571
fondly tap the keyboard on one of the old
computers, then his gaze turned on her.

He sees me, Chevie realized, feeling the
cold from the basement’s floor seep into her
body.

His gaze lingered on her a moment, then
the magician made his way with determined
strides toward the lockup door.

It’s okay, she thought. That door is rein-
forced steel. The devil himself is not getting
in without a card or a code.

The demonic figure came to a halt in front
of the security keypad, cracked his knuckles
theatrically, then punched in the code.

“Abracadabra,” he said as the holding-cell

door yawned open.

I am sorry, Riley , thought Chevie. You
told me the truth, and I left you there to die.
Forgive me.

Garrick doffed his hat, as though entering

a church, then ducked inside the cell.

129/571
Chevie closed her eye. She did not want to

see what happened next.
Albert Garrick had literally become a new
man when he emerged from the sac and
stepped into the future.

Everything was different: his DNA, his
vocabulary, his range of expertise, his stance,
muscle development, comprehension. He
had even studied Shakespeare, or at least
Felix Smart had.

To be or not to be, my little Riley. In your
case, I am undecided. It occurred to Garrick
that there might be some danger lurking in
this facility in which he had materialized,
though Smart’s memories assured him that
the sole sentry was a young girl, a slip of a
thing who one would imagine to be relatively
harmless. And yet Smart’s memories told
him that she was an accomplished com-
batant who had performed most admirably
in the City of Angels.

130/571
And she wears the last Timekey, he re-
membered. Even though Smart’s memories
had emerged from the wormhole intact, his
Timekey lay like a cinder on his chest.

Do not underestimate the girl, Garrick
told himself, or unto dust will be your own
destination.

Garrick planted himself firmly in the real
world and cast his eyes around. This was a
strange place; windowless walls were lined
with colored ropes
and wall-mounted
machinery.

Cables and servers, the electricity flowing
between his new nerve endings informed
him.

The gory evidence of Garrick’s passage
from the past was evident: blood striped the
walls and lay in congealing splashes on tab-
letop machinery.

“Riley,” he said, testing his voice. “Riley,
my son. I have come for you. I know where

131/571
you are incarcerated. The futurist Smart
showed me.”

Garrick headed toward the machinery.
This is a laptop, he thought, tip-tapping the
keyboard. How charming.

There would be time for such fancies later,
but for now he must release Riley, retire to a
safe crib, then let the boy bask in his mas-
ter’s new glory.

There was no obvious sign of Miss Savano.
Perhaps the violence of his arrival had done
her in?

Or perhaps she lies in wait?
Garrick forced himself to concentrate. He
moved to the wall, squinting through the
smoke and flashing lights down the red-
bricked hallway to the jumble of containers.

There. Look!
An arm was sticking out from the crawl
space below the boxes. The fingers twitched
spasmodically and the head resting on that

132/571
arm wasn’t moving. One eye was fully closed,
the other glazed and swollen.

That little periwinkle is a shade from
death. I will nab my boy, then extinguish
her final spark on the way out.

Garrick moved quickly down the corridor,
feeling better than he had in decades. The
trip through the wormhole had purged his
system. He felt like a giddy whelp about to
shinny his first drainpipe.

Another challenge lay before him, a chal-
lenge for the old Albert Garrick that was. Not
the new model.

Version 2.0, he thought, then pinched the
force

forearm to

own

on

skin
his
concentration.

The challenge was a keypad for the elec-

tronic lock.

This machine can be fed with numbers or
cards. I don’t have the card, but the codes to
everything in this house are in my head
somewhere.

133/571
Garrick cocked his head while his brain
supplied the numbers. He cracked his
knuckles, then tapped the code into the pad.
The light winked green and the door popped
open.

“Abracadabra,” he said with satisfaction.
Garrick doffed his hat and ducked inside,
smiling at the thought of Riley’s amazement.
Oh, my son. We have much to share. So

much.

The cell was spartan, with only a narrow
cot, a single chair and, of course, a camera
crouched like a spider on the ceiling. But that
was all.

No boy.
Riley had gone. His son.
Garrick would not allow himself to roar
the boy’s name. He had once been a celeb-
rated illusionist, after all, not a simple player
of dreadful melodrama. Instead he contented
himself with a resounding slam of the door
on his way to interview Miss Savano.

134/571
How fortunate that I did not kill her be-
fore, he mused. Now she may help me find
Riley before she dies.

Chevie’s world was spinning in a kaleido-
scope of dull colors. Concrete gray and
streaked brown. She had been thinking, The
boy is dead, over and over, but now she
couldn’t remember if that was a snatch of a
song lyric or an actual thought she should be
concerned about.

Something was happening outside her
head to one of her body parts. A shoulder,
maybe? Yes, her shoulder. Why was someone
shaking her shoulder when all she wanted to
do was sleep?
“Miss, wake up,” said a voice urgently. “He’s
coming.”

Wake up? No, thanks. This was her day
off. Maybe a little surfing later on down at
Malibu.

“Miss, on your feet now, or Garrick will kill

both of us.”

135/571

Garrick.
An image flashed through Chevie’s mind of
a bloody body emerging from some kind of
cocoon.

One of her eyes fluttered open; the other
was still swollen like a pink beetle in her eye
socket. The boy leaned over her, hoisting her
by the lapels.

“Riley?”
“The one and only, Miss Savano. We have

to quit this place right now.”

Leaving? But I thought you were dead.
I’m just going to close my eyes for a second.
agent under her

grabbed the

Riley

armpits, and hauled her upright.

“Come along now,” he grunted. “Upsy-

daisy.”

Chevie’s good eye flicked open. “I am not a

child.”

At this moment Garrick appeared in the
like alabaster and

corridor, his face set
streaked with blood.

136/571
He is angry, Riley realized, and the sight of
his master’s cold expression nearly paralyzed
him with fear.

His

survival

instincts

took over. He
grabbed Chevie’s pistol, placed it in her fin-
gers, and, clasping her hand in both of his,
he aimed the gun at Garrick’s chest.

“Shoot, miss,” he said. “Now!”
With Riley’s help, Chevie managed to
squeeze off not one but two shots, both
pulling high, but the second slug struck close
enough to give Garrick pause. The magician
snarled like a cornered street mutt and
changed his pattern of movement entirely,
becoming fluid, but also erratic, never arriv-
ing where his body language forecast he
would be. When it seemed as though he was
committed to a sidestep, his body would
make an impossible diagonal lunge forward.
The gunshots jarred Chevie back to reality,
this Garrick person

and she noted that

137/571
moved in a way she had never seen. She
blinked her good eye.

“What? This guy is like a cat.”
“Misdirection, a magician’s ploy,” said Ri-
ley, grunting as he hauled Chevie backward
up the stairs. He could explain more about
Garrick’s unique style later, when they had
escaped this death house,
if escape were
possible.

Chevie backed up the stairs, keeping her
gun trained as much as possible on Garrick.
The magician hissed now, like a vampire,
and jammed his bowler hat down to his
brows so he would not lose it.

He’s getting ready to spring,

thought

Chevie.

“Yeah, that’s right, fella,” she called down
to the magician. “You come a little closer.
Let’s see how well your disco moves work in
a narrow stairwell. I will drill you right
through your eyeball.”

138/571
The warning seemed to work, possibly be-
cause there was a lot of truth in it. If Garrick
set foot on the stairs, he would be boxed in
by the wall and bannister. But if Chevie
thought the nineteenth-century man would
be cowed by her futuristic weapon, she was
wrong.

“You cannot escape me, Chevron Savano,”
he said, head cocked to one side. “I will have
my boy back and the secrets of the Timekey.”
Chevie’s blood ran cold. This guy knew an

awful lot for a Victorian.

“Take one more step,” she said, keeping
her weapon as steady as possible, “and we’ll
see who escapes.”

All this time Riley muttered into Chevie’s
ear and dragged her backward toward street
level.

“Step and retreat,” he said, trying not to
catch Garrick’s eye,
for that glacial gaze
would freeze and shatter his resolve. “Step
and retreat.”

139/571
They were near the top step now, while
Garrick lurked at the bottom, flexing his fin-
gers in frustration, wishing for a throwing
knife. Chevie had an idea.

I have this guy pinned down. Backup can

be here in two minutes.

“It’s okay,” she told Riley. “We’ve got him
now. He’s going nowhere. There’s a phone in
my waistband—pass it to me.”

Garrick also had an idea. The magician
suddenly withdrew from the foot of the stairs
and hurried along the subterranean corridor
to the computer banks.

That’s okay. That’s fine. All he can do with
the computers is slap the keyboards. No
password, no access, Chevie thought. Then:
Really? The holding-cell door didn’t slow
him down much, remember?

“Phone, Riley. Get my phone.”
“Unless it’s a weapon, Agent, forget your
bloomin’ phone. Aim your gun and fire off
another shot.”

140/571
“No, don’t worry. He’s contained down

there.”

Riley understood that Miss Savano be-
lieved she had gained the upper hand, and
his eyes watered with frustration.

“You don’t understand, miss. Garrick is a
devil. He ain’t no bludger nor simple broads-
man. Didn’t you see him delivered from the
pit with your own two gawpers?”

Chevie had seen it, but she refused to re-
linquish the rules of her world entirely.
“Maybe, if he could get into the weapons
locker, he could do something, but that’s
protected by a code.”

From below came a double bleep and ka-
chaak, which Chevie recognized as the
weapons locker keypad turning off its alarm
and swinging open.

Riley knew without being told what the
noises were. “That was your locker, wasn’t it,
miss? That was Garrick outfoxing your
code?”

141/571

Again, thought Chevie.
“That was our cue to go,” she admitted,
hitching herself over the top step and into
the hallway. “What you said about leaving?
You were right.”

“Praise the Lord for good sense,” said Ri-
ley, and he ducked under Chevie’s arm so he
could drag her more efficiently.

Garrick appeared, cradling an AK-47 as-
sault rifle, which had probably been new
when Chevie was in grade school.

The gun’s age won’t slow down the bul-
lets, thought Chevie, forcing Garrick to duck
as she sent three more rounds humming
down the stairwell. That should buy us five
seconds at least.

Five seconds was about

three seconds
more than she got. Before the echo of her fi-
nal shot had faded, Garrick’s head appeared
once more around the corner of the first
flight of stairs. This time he had the AK’s

142/571
stock expertly wedged between cheek and
shoulder.

the metal

Riley knew then that Garrick had come out
of
transporting machine with
knowledge and abilities he had not previ-
ously possessed. He was somehow improved.
“Now, little girlie,” Garrick called, “let us
see if what I dreamed about this contraption
is true.”

Garrick pulled the trigger, sending a
stream of bullets into the ceiling over Chev-
ie’s head. The kickback got away from him
for a second, but he soon recovered. The
noise was deafening in the confined space,
like overlapping thunderclaps. Riley and
Chevie hunkered on the floorboards, unable
to tell if they had been shot or if they were
screaming.

Riley had no combat experience like Chev-
ie’s, but his entire life had been one long
trauma, so he was accustomed to getting on
with living even when death was close at

143/571
hand. He grabbed Agent Savano by the collar
and dragged her backward like a sack of coal.
“Come on,” he cried. “We must get to the

streets.”

They stumbled along together, with the
threat of Garrick like a wind at their backs;
and in a ragged moment they were at the
front door, which was secured by three bolts
set into a steel frame.

Swipe the security card and we’re out,

thought Chevie.

Chevie felt for the tiny reel clipped to a

pant loop where her card normally hung.

No card. Must have lost it in the explo-

sion. Unless . . .

Chevie glared at Riley. “Give me my card,

thief.”

Riley already had it out. “You leaned a
fraction close doing the manacles. And I
opened them with a pick from me sock that
came out of the machine with me. Sorry,
Agent. Life or death.”

144/571
They could talk about this later. Chevie
swiped the card as bullets bounced around
the hallway, shattering glass and blasting a
crystal chandelier. It crashed to the ground,
showering Riley with glass shards and block-
ing the stairwell.

“Riley!” called Garrick. “Kill her, boy. I
know it’s in you. I will wipe the slate, my
word on it.” All this while climbing the stairs
and changing magazines.

The door popped open a slice, and Chevie

put her final bullet into the control pad.

A red light flashed on the alarm pad and a
peeved voice said: “control pad tampered
with. lockdown in five seconds. lockdown in
four seconds.”

Garrick hopped nimbly over the twisted
remains of the chandelier, raising his knees
unfeasibly high to the level of his ears, carry-
ing the automatic weapon overhead.

“Strike, Riley.”

In case Riley chose not

145/571
to strike as
ordered, Garrick fired another burst at Agent
Savano, but he was too late. The door had
closed behind his quarry, all three bolts en-
gaging automatically. Simultaneously the
rear entrance locked itself, and bars dropped
over every window in the house. The security
system was the best federal dollars could
buy, and in under three seconds the house
on Bedford Street was locked down tighter
than the average Swiss bank.

Chevie rested with her back against the
door, feeling her pulse drumming inside her
swollen eyelid.

“Okay, we have a breather now. That mon-
ster may have beaten the weapons code out
of Smart, but he’s not getting out of that
house without FBI clearance.”

Riley tugged Chevie away from the door.
“We must keep moving, miss. No building

can hold Albert Garrick for long,” he said.

Chevie allowed herself

146/571
to be tugged
through the cordon of emergency tape tied
across the railing. She was starting to believe
that maybe this Garrick character was just as
dangerous as Riley claimed him to be.

A Visit to the Outhouse

BEDFORD SQUARE. BLOOMSBURY.

LONDON. NOW

Riley and Chevie stumbled into the orange
glow of evening streetlamps, on to the square
lined with Georgian four-story houses bor-
dering a small park like something from
Peter Pan.

“This at least is familiar,” panted Riley,
gazing at the square, purposefully ignoring
the sounds and sights beyond. “I was terribly
afraid that modern wonders would be too
much for my poor nut.”

148/571
Wait until you see Piccadilly Circus ,
thought Chevie. Riley drew in a huge shud-
dering breath. “Garrick is always telling me
to breathe. It calms a body, if a body needs
calming.” Riley stopped talking as his nose
took stock of the air that had just gone into
it.

“How curious,” he said, then threw up all

over the pavement.

“That’s great,” said Chevie. “We’ll never

get a black cab to pick us up now.”

But she did manage to flag down a cab
outside a boutique hotel on Bayley Street,
and soon they were lost in traffic, heading to-
ward Leicester Square.

Riley kept his head between his knees,
drawing sticky breaths until he could make
himself stop shaking. “The smell, miss. It’s
like the inside of an apothecary’s pocket. I
can’t smell the city.”

149/571
Chevie patted him on the back. “I guess it’s
a bit cleaner these days. No one empties
chamber pots out the window anymore.”

“I can’t smell the people. Are there less

people now?”

Chevie looked out at the teeming metro-

polis rolling past the window. “Not really.”

Riley clasped his knees tightly and raised

his eyes.

“I don’t smell any horses,” he croaked.
“Nope, no horses. Except outside Bucking-

ham Palace on occasion.”

Riley straightened and pressed his face to
the window. “Generally, we have horses. But
I’ve seen automobiles, so this ain’t so terrify-
ing.” Then a double-decker bus loomed
alongside.

Riley flinched. Perhaps he could handle a
carriage-sized automobile, but this craft was
bigger than a cargo barge.

His eyes took in one modern wonder after
shops.

another. Neon signs. Computer

150/571
Skyscrapers. Eventually he saw something
familiar.

“There’s an honest-to-god Blighty pub,”
Riley gasped. “Can we go in, Agent? A quick
dram of brandy for my nerves?”

Chevie snorted. “You are not drinking,

Riley.”

“Why not? Is it outlawed entirely?”
“Yeah,

that’s right. Totally illegal. You

touch one dram and I’ll have to shoot you.”

Riley sighed a spot of condensation on the
window, then lifted his gaze skyward, and his
breath came in sudden shallow bursts,
clouding the glass.

“A-a-agent Savano?”
Chevie was halfway through dialing a

number. “In a second, kid.”

Riley touched her arm with one finger, and

Chevie could feel it tap-tapping with fear.

“It ain’t the Martians, miss, is it? Like in

Mr. Wells’s new story, War of the Worlds?”

151/571
Chevie followed the boy’s troubled gaze
and saw the silhouette of a passenger plane
overhead.

“Don’t worry, kid. It’s just Ryanair, not ali-
ens, though it’s a reasonable assumption. I
think I’d better get you off the street before
your head explodes.”

“Oh my God. A person’s head is likely to
explode these days? Is it heat rays? I need a
brandy, miss, upon my life.”

Chevie punched the last three numbers in-
to her keypad. “You don’t need a brandy, Ri-
ley, you need an outhouse.”

“You are not in the wrong there,” agreed
the boy. “It seems like a hundred years since
I last went.”

Chevie held the phone to her ear. “Not that

kind of outhouse.”

The FBI had several safe houses, apart-
ments, and hotel rooms spread across Lon-
don in case one of their agents got into hot
water during an operation and needed a

152/571
place to lie low and wait for the cavalry to
gallop across from the U.S. embassy.

These safe houses were officially known as
secure facilities, but the agents had referred
to them as outhouses (out as in Officer
Under Threat) since the term was popular-
ized by a seventies
spy series Double
Trouble, starring the English actor Sir Olivi-
er Gamgud and his faithful Yorkshire terrier.
The closest outhouse to Chevie’s location
was a suite in the Garden Hotel, an under-
stated boutique hotel on Monmouth Street
where movie stars and models could be
found enjoying the famous breakfast on any
given morning. Bureau rumor had it that the
section chief chose the Garden because of its
proximity to the Monmouth Coffee Company
café, which served arguably the best espresso
outside São Paulo.

Chevie called the desk and asked for

Waldo.

153/571
“Hello, this is Waldo,” said a deep voice.

“How can I help you?”

Chevie spoke slowly, sticking to the code.
Waldo was a notorious stickler for protocol
and would hang up if she strayed from the
correct wording.

“I would like to speak with my Uncle Sam,
Waldo,” she said. “He’s in room one-seven-
seven-six.”

Waldo was silent for so long that Chevie

thought he might have disconnected.

“I’m sorry. What room did you say your

Uncle Sam was in?”

Chevie fumed, and silently vowed to kick
Waldo really hard somewhere soft at a later
date. “I’m sorry, Waldo. My Uncle Sam is in
room seventeen seventy-six.”

Another pause, but this time Chevie could
hear a keyboard being tapped. “And what did
you say your name was, miss?”

“My name is Chevron, but Uncle Sam has
always called me . . .” Chevie crossed two

154/571
fingers, hoping she had the right code name
for today. “Spiderwick.”

“Spiderwick. Yes, I do have you on the vis-

itors list.”

“Good. Great.”
“Your Uncle Sam is not in residence at the
moment. Perhaps you would like to wait for
him in the suite?”

“I would like to wait. We both would.”
More tapping. “Ah . . . both. The hotel has
excellent facilities; would you care to make
use of them while you are waiting?”

Chevie looked at Riley. “I think a wardrobe

and some first aid are definitely needed.”

“Very good, Spiderwick. How soon can we

expect you?”

Chevie checked the street.

“ETA two

minutes, Waldo.”

Waldo hung up without another word. He
only had two minutes; there was no time for
chitchat.

•••

155/571

The cab pulled up outside the Garden Hotel
slightly more than three minutes later and
disgorged a very unlikely couple onto Mon-
mouth Street.

One seventeen-year-old FBI agent

in
Lycra, and an assassin’s apprentice from the
nineteenth century,
thought Chevie. We
must be quite a sight. At least both of my
eyes are open now.

Monmouth Street itself was quiet, in spite
of its proximity to Covent Garden, with only
a few tourists cutting through to Seven Dials
or Leicester Square and the faint echo of car-
nival music. Most of the street was fenced off
for street repairs, and the taxi driver was
forced to reverse and go out the same way he
had come in.

The Garden Hotel was one of those estab-
lishments that prided itself on the discretion
it guaranteed its very select clientele. There

156/571
was no sign, no doorman in a top hat, and
only a tasteful awning to show taxi drivers
where to stop. Chevie had stayed here once
before, when Orange had commandeered her
apartment during a routine pod service, and
she had treated herself to a massage that had
worked out muscle pains she’d suffered from
overstrenuous workouts.

Chevie tucked her holstered Glock under
her arm and hustled Riley into the lobby be-
fore he had time to throw up again. Special
Agent Waldo Gunn was waiting for them by
the reception desk.

“Two minutes?” he said testily. “That was
closer to four.” Waldo was not anybody’s
idea of an FBI operative, which was probably
why he had survived so long in his semi-un-
dercover capacity as liaison at the Garden.
Waldo stood five feet four in Cuban heels
and had a bushy gray beard that made him
seem about a thousand years old, a look that
had earned him the nickname Gimli in the

157/571
Bureau. If Waldo was aware of this nick-
name, he was not sufficiently bothered by it
to invest in a razor.
“Hey, Waldo,” said Chevie. “What’s up?”

Waldo

“What’s

scowled.

up, Agent
Savano? What’s up is that you should have
requested an escort through the service en-
trance. We try to maintain a low profile here
in order to avoid raising suspicion, and yet
here you stand in tattered training gear with
a chimney-cleaning midget in tow. Hardly
low profile. That is what is up, Agent.”

At

least he called me Agent,

thought

Chevie.

Waldo turned on his heel and strode
through the small lobby furnished in late
Victorian style, which was a huge relief to Ri-
ley, whose
bursting with
revelations.

head was

“Should we follow the elf?” he asked

Chevie.

158/571
Chevie smiled. “We should, or he gets

really annoyed.”

Waldo translated his irritation into a
quickstep, so Chevie and Riley had to hustle
to keep on his tail. He led them around the
front desk and into a small steel elevator,
which he summoned with a remote control
fob on his waistcoat.

Riley tried to appear blasé. “It’s an ascend-
ing room, no great shakes. I saw ’em at the
Savoy years ago when Garrick sent me to
suss out some swell’s gaff.”

Waldo raised an eyebrow at Chevie, who
knew exactly what the unasked question was.
“Yes, he talks like that all the time. It’s all
Strike me blind or Cor, luv a duck with this
little gent.”

Waldo took a smartphone from his pocket
and typed a note. Chevie would be willing to
bet that the word delusional was in the note
somewhere.

159/571
They took the elevator to the fourth floor,

with Riley holding grimly onto the rail.

“You can’t be overcautious,” he told Chev-
ie. “I heard about one of these things snap-
ping its cable in New York City. It dropped
quicker than a shirkster at closing time.
Made jam of the passengers.”

“I’m getting a headache listening to this
cockney speak,” said Waldo. “Please God
there won’t be any rhyming slang.”

Riley literally jumped from the elevator
when the door opened, then they pushed
through a fire door and climbed some back
stairs up two more flights.

“Here we are,” said Waldo, indicating a
nondescript gray door with the sweep of his
arm, as though it was the gateway to a palace
of wonder. “Room seventeen seventy-six.”

He pressed another button on his remote

and the door swung smoothly open.

“In you go, Agent. You can hole up here
until a field team arrives. It shouldn’t be too

160/571
long, though head office tells me that our
team has already been deployed to deal with
a suspected terrorist hive, in Devon, of all
places. False alarm, as it turned out. So I’m
guessing it’ll take an hour for them to make
it back here. Plenty of time for you to get
some clothes on, and for the Artful Dodger to
take a bath.”

“Cheers, guv’nor, you is a proper swell,”
said Riley innocently, and Chevie guessed
that he knew exactly who the Artful Dodger
was.

Waldo frowned suspiciously but continued
his briefing. “We have a range of clothes in
the closet, so you should find something to
fit. And there is a fridge with cold food. Don’t
open the door to anyone but me, and if
someone comes through that door who is not
me, then feel free to shoot them. While we
are not in the embassy and so technically not
on American soil, this suite is attached to the
embassy, and so a strong case can be made.

161/571
In any event, jurisdiction over these rooms is
a gray area, which should be enough to get
you back Stateside if anything goes wrong.”
Waldo opened a drawer in a writing desk. “In
the event you are out of ammunition, we
have a selection here, behind the stationery.”

“Ooh,” said Chevie. “Stationery. Cool.”
Waldo bristled. “I would have thought,
Agent Savano, that after the Los Angeles
foul-up, you would take this job a little more
seriously.”

“I am being serious,” said Chevie. “One of

my foster moms collects stationery.”

“I shall be writing a full report,” continued
Waldo, “and your attitude will be both un-
derlined and in italics.”

Chevie selected a clip for her Glock.
“Sorry, Waldo. I get a little giddy under pres-
sure. There’s someone after us. Someone a
little out of the ordinary.”

Waldo was not impressed. “Well, your
someone won’t be coming in here without an

162/571
assault team behind him. And even then he’d
need the door remote, which is paired to my
biometric readings.”

Riley took his nose out of the fruit bowl.
“Thanks for the grub and everything, mate,
but none of you Yankees knows what you’re
talking about. Garrick will come for me.”

Chevie opened her mouth to disagree, but
all that came out was a soft sigh. Garrick had
come through a wormhole to find Riley. He
had overcome Smart’s ninja hazmat team. It
seemed unlikely that a hobbit and a locked
door would keep him out.

She checked her watch. “So, Gim— Waldo.

Fifty-nine minutes, right?”

Waldo made a sound that was very close to
an actual harrumph, then composed himself
and smiled sweetly before extending his left
hand, palm up.

“Tell me you are not looking for a tip,” said

Chevie in disbelief.

163/571
Waldo’s smile disappeared and he closed
his fingers tightly, as though crushing the
soul of an enemy.

“Force of habit,” he said, and beeped him-

self out of the door.

Chevie and Riley spent the next half hour
trying to relax somewhat, but neither of
them could shake a feeling of frosty forebod-
ing. And it wasn’t one of those vague feelings
that something bad was on the way; it was
the very specific belief that any second Albert
Garrick was going to burst in through the re-
inforced door and shoot them both in the
head.

Chevie wondered if

should call
someone, and if she did call someone, what
would she tell them?

she

The FBI have a set of secret time machines

that we use to hide witnesses in the past.

Or, A death-dealing magician has come
from the nineteenth century to kill an
urchin.

164/571
Or, The world’s greatest scientist has been

turned into a dead monkey by a wormhole.

It sounded pretty insane, whatever way
you presented it. Better to wait until rein-
forcements arrived and hope that the agent
in charge would have some previous know-
ledge of what was going on—otherwise Chev-
ie was going to look guilty of something.

Riley emerged from the bedroom all dick-
ied up in what looked like a school uniform,
taken from Waldo’s stash. He caught a
glimpse of himself in the mirror and seemed
surprised by his own features.

“That’s an excellent looking-glass, Agent. I
never saw myself so clear. Look, my hair has
both brown and black in it. There’s a turn-up
for the books.”

The boy studied himself for a long mo-
ment, pulling at the skin of his pale face,
sweeping his long dark hair back from his
forehead. In the mirror he caught sight of the
flat-screen television on its bracket.

165/571
“What is that device bolted to the wall? Is
it a work of art, perhaps? A cloudy night, or
some such? Toffs will buy any old rubbish if
they believe it was scribbled by a master.”

“It’s a television, actually, Riley. Moving

pictures on a screen.”

Riley turned to stare at the TV. “Moving
pictures.” A thought struck him. “When I
woke this morning it was the year of our
Lord 1898. How far have I traveled?”

“More than a hundred years,” said Chevie

softly.

Riley sank deep into a sofa, eyes downcast,

and hugged himself.

“A hundred years? That far. Everyone I
know is dead, and everything I know is
gone.”

Chevie didn’t know what to say. She tried
to imagine herself in the boy’s situation, but
couldn’t. The shock must be incredible.

“I feel

lost at sea,” Riley admitted. He
pondered, then said, “But Garrick doesn’t.

166/571
He is somehow different. Something has
changed him. He has knowledge of your
weapons and codes. Who’s to say he does not
already have the codes for this gaff?”

Chevie sat on a low glass coffee table, fa-
cing the boy. “Garrick would have to be crazy
to come here. He’s got all of London to get
lost in. Why would he even bother tracking
down a kid?”

“His reasoning is difficult to explain,” said
Riley, frowning. “He calls me his son, to save
or drown as he pleases. But I ain’t his son,
and I hate him. I have bolted before, and he
has followed me across the whole of the city.”
Riley pointed to his right eye. “I ran away to
Saint Giles last year. Squared myself away
down with the guttersnipes, but Garrick’s
snouts informed on me. That devil rooted me
out and gave me a sound thrashing. The eye
was never the same, but I can see out of it
clear enough. Now Garrick has even followed
me here, like Mr. Wells’s Time Traveler.”

167/571
“Well, Mr. Garrick has no snouts here,”
said Chevie. “And, just for your information,
people have being trying to find the outhouse
for years. People from this century—if they
couldn’t find it, neither will he. You have no
idea how things have changed since your
day.” Chevie thought of something. “But I
can give you an idea. Sit there.”

Chevie pointed to the deep purple sofa in
front of the flat black TV. She logged on to
the Internet and navigated to a Web site that
had a series of videos documenting major
political, scientific, and cultural changes. She
chose one and played it.

“Now sit there and learn something,” she

instructed the Victorian boy.

Riley had been dumbfounded so often
already this evening that he did not remark
upon the HD graphics, but the site’s music
almost moved him to tears.

168/571
“It’s like sitting beside the entire orches-
tra,” he said softly. “A music machine with
pictures.”

Chevie walked toward the bathroom. “A
music machine with pictures. I like that.
Okay, you absorb whatever you can while I
clean up a little. Just don’t touch the screen.”
This time Riley did look away from the TV.
“Why not? Would I be transported to the
land of the magic machine?”

Chevie was tempted to say yes, but the kid
had been through enough for one day. “No,
this ain’t Tron. But you would smear the
screen, which would freak out the elf.”

Riley returned his gaze to the screen.
Freaking out the elf sounded like a terrible
thing indeed. He would look but not touch.

BEDFORD SQUARE. BLOOMSBURY.

LONDON. NOW

169/571
At first Albert Garrick was mightily angered
by being trapped in Bedford Square, but
such were his new powers that a dozen solu-
tions to his problem soon flowed like a balm
across his spiky mood. The magician calmed
himself and sat in front of his laptop in the
ground floor office.

No, not my laptop. Felix Smart’s laptop.
Though that more or less amounted to the
same thing. Felix Smart’s mind was inside
his own, leaking information like a cracked
gourd.

And there is more. The explosion inside
the wormhole has changed me. I am more
than human now. I am the universe’s first
quantum man. The rules of normal space do
not apply to me anymore. My very appear-
ance is fluid, and my mind is chock-full of
useful nuggets.

It took Garrick mere seconds to lift the
lockdown from Bedford Square, and he

170/571
listened with satisfaction as the shutters
rolled back from the windows.
The magician cackled aloud.
Computers! Wonderful machines.
He was free now to leave and wreak havoc
on this new age, with no one to stop him or
even understand what they were trying to
stop.

So, why don’t I abandon my hunt for Ri-

ley and disappear into the multitude?

Garrick now understood his need to track
the boy down. Garrick’s father had deserted
him in dramatic fashion when he was ten, so
he had a deep fear of desertion.

You is sorted proper now, my son, his
father told him one morning. And I cannot
live sober with what my hand was forced
into doing to secure your future. I slit the
throat of my best mate and a few more be-
sides to keep you in a bed away from the
Old Nichol.

171/571
The ten-year-old Garrick noticed his fath-
er’s belongings tied in a pillowcase at the foot
of their room’s small bed.

Are you leaving me, Da?
Tears flowed down his father’s ruddy
cheeks as he answered, I am, boy. You know
I have struggled with a grog habit all my
life. And now, with dreams of blood and
your poor brothers and sisters occupying
my mind, I can’t fight no more. So it is my
intention to return to the Nichol and drink
myself into the grave. Shouldn’t take more’n
a month. Don’t try to find me, as I plan to be
drunk and violent. I will shout hello to your
mother on my way past the pearlies, and
keep an eye on you from the devil’s
shoulder.

And he was gone, stumbling through the
doorway, half blind with tears. Albert never
saw his father again but heard rumors that
he had died from a fractured skull following

172/571
a crack on the head from a peeler outside the
Jerusalem Tavern.

I was deserted and so have a fear of deser-
tion, concluded the creature that was Albert
Garrick. I know this but still feel it.

But there was more to this current pursuit
than a fear of desertion. Wherever Riley was,
there too would be Chevron Savano. Garrick
had an urgent desire to make contact with
that young lady, for she possessed the final
remaining Timekey, and with that he could
return to his own time and be its master.

Garrick knew that in this world he was
something of a prodigy; there was much he
could achieve, but he would always feel the
scrutiny of satellites, crouched like electronic
spiders in high Earth orbits. And with
enough resources, his enemies could find
him and kill him, as there were many with
his knowledge in this era. But back in his
own time, Albert Garrick could be godlike. In
Victorian London, a man with his knowledge

173/571
and foresight could be a prophet in his own
land.

I could lead a revolution against the gov-
ernment. I could discover antibiotics and in-
vent the solar panel. I could build the first
working airplane and drop hydrogen
bombs on my enemies. There is nothing I
could not do.

But first I must open the wormhole. This

is where my efforts must be concentrated.

Given ten years, unlimited funds, and the
backing of a large government, Garrick knew
that he could possibly construct a Timekey,
but there was already a key in existence and
it hung around the neck of Special Agent
Chevron Savano.

That strange and stupid girl, thought Gar-
rick. She will follow procedure and I will trap
her in the Bureau’s own red tape. Once I
have the key, all I need is five seconds with
the WARP pod.

174/571
Garrick quickly posted out a Be On the
Lookout report to the Bureau network for
Chevron Savano, and tested the extent of his
new computer skills by inserting her on the
FBI’s most wanted list. The hazmat team was
gone, so why not make Miss Savano respons-
ible for killing them?

Hazmat, thought Garrick. What a delight-

ful word.

Garrick removed his own bowler, plucked
Smart’s softbrimmed hat from the stand by
the desk, and, tip-tapping his spidery fingers
along the brim, put it on.

Only six people in the Bureau have met
Felix Smart since he came to London. Four
are dead, one is on the run, and the last is
on assignment in Iraq.

“Hello, Waldo,” he said, trying out Smart’s
voice. “I’ve heard a lot about you.” He
cleared his throat and tried again. “Agent
Gunn. At last we meet face-to-face. I believe

175/571
you’ve got a couple of fugitives for me in the
penthouse?”

It was a fair approximation of the Scottish
agent, and perhaps there was more he could
do to bolster his impersonation. He was the
master of illusion, after all, and the world’s
first quantum man.

Garrick checked his appearance in the hat-
stand mirror. His face had always been plain
as tapioca, which was a boon in his line of
work, as people tended not to notice him, or
to forget him instantly if they did. During his
theater days, he would literally paint a per-
sonality onto his face, changing it to suit the
illusion.

Garrick stared into the mirror

and

watched as his skin began to bubble.

For Garrick had come by more than know-
ledge in the wormhole; he had gained control
of his own workings, right down to the smal-
lest particle. Where most men operated on a
small slice of brain, Garrick had the choice of

176/571
the whole pie. This did not lead to telekines-
is, but it meant Garrick could communicate
with his own fibers more efficiently. He
could control the whorls of his own finger-
prints, or the balance of his thyroid to turn
hair gray. Or, with a little effort, he could
communicate with the marrow in his bones
or the layers of fat under his epidermis to en-
tirely change his appearance. He could not
become just anyone, nor stray too far from
his own mass, but he could certainly allow a
physicality that was already inside him to
emerge.

THE GARDEN HOTEL. MONMOUTH STREET.

LONDON. NOW

Chevie took a quick shower, strapped a gel-
mask across her eye to bring down the swell-
ing, then checked the closet for something to
wear other than the workout gear, which
seemed to scandalize Riley. There were

177/571
numerous outfits to chose from, all draped in
plastic,
including several pairs of crime-
scene overalls, a leopard-skin dress, and a
puffy cartoon character mouse costume.

Some of these people were deep, deep un-
dercover, she thought, selecting an Armani
suit and a pair of black Bally loafers that
would have cost her more than a month’s
pay.
Finally. A perk.

The suit fitted well, and after Chevie had
checked herself in the full-length mirror, she
sat down to compose a report on the bed-
room computer, trying to make the day’s
events read more like real happenings than
an episode of a sci-fi miniseries.

Found out I was guarding a time machine
in case the inventor happened to pop in
from the nineteenth century.

Nope, there was no way to make it sound
like a serious report, even by using bureau
buzz terms like unsub, asset, and AO.

178/571
By the time she had pounded out five hun-
dred words on the keyboard, Chevie was de-
veloping a headache behind her right eye and
was glad to hear the doorbell ring. She pulled
off the gel-mask.

The cavalry, finally.
Riley was still stuck in front on the TV
when she passed by, stuffing his face from a
platter of cold meats.

“I hope you’re not drinking brandy,” said

Chevie.

“Absolutely not,” said Riley, waving a
brown bottle. “Beer only, Agent. I do as I am
told, I do.”

Chevie deviated from her course to snag
the beer bottle. “No alcohol, Riley.” She nod-
ded at the screen. “How are you liking the
twenty-first century?”

Riley burped. “The Take That are most
melodic. And God bless Harry Potter is all I
can say. If not for him, all of London would
have been consumed by the dark arts.”

179/571
“Keep eating,” said Chevie, thinking that
she would have to watch the videos with him
next time. “And you can stop worrying, kid.
Help is here.”

“We need all the help we can get, Agent.
You should fill your belly, so we can face the
challenges of the day with full bellies and
without weevils in our shirts, eh?”

Chevie was not sure what a weevil was, but
she was pretty certain that she did not want
one in her shirt.

“No weevils,” she said. “I’m with you on

that one.”

She left Riley by the TV and walked to the
door, flattening herself to the wall as she had
been taught, drawing her weapon, and point-
ing it at the spyhole. There was a small video
intercom mounted on the wall beside the
door, and Chevie was relieved to see Waldo
on the screen, looking even grumpier than
last time, which was somehow reassuring.

180/571
The security camera showed that the hobbit-
like liaison officer was alone in the corridor.

Chevie pressed the talk button. “Has the

Bureau team arrived?” she asked.

“They are on the way,” replied Waldo. “I
am to debrief you, apparently. Though that is
not in my job description. What do they
think I am, a secretary?”

“Don’t get your baggins in a twist,” said
Chevie. She holstered her Glock and opened
the door. “This is an important case. We
need to work together.”

Waldo stood in the hallway, hands behind
his back, not looking remotely in the mood
for cooperation.

“Work together, you say? Like you worked

together with the hazmat team?”

Chevie felt her stomach lurch and reached
for her pistol. She even managed to get it
clear of the holster before Waldo whipped a
stun gun from behind his back and fired two
needletipped darts
chest,

into Chevie’s

181/571
sending 50,000 volts sizzling through her
frame. Chevie felt the shock like a thousand
hammers pounding on every inch of her
skin, forcing her to her knees and then onto
her back.

“I got the BOLO from Agent Orange,” she
heard Waldo say. His voice was thick and
slow, floating from far away. “You killed
those men, and one of
them owed me
money.”

No, Chevie wanted to say. It’s a trick.

You’re being tricked.

But her tongue felt like a pound of raw
steak in her mouth, and her limbs were
slack, like half-filled water balloons. She saw
Waldo loom over her, and the view reminded
her of a Godzilla movie where the monster
stepped over a bridge.

“I’ve got one more charge,” said the
harmless-looking hobbit in that faraway, un-
derwater voice.

182/571
Run, Riley! Run! Chevie wanted to
scream, but all that came from her mouth
was a hiss of dry air.
Riley heard the exchange in the hallway, and
then that particular rumbling sound of a
body falling over.

Garrick! he thought, and sprang to his feet
on the sofa. He wanted to help, but that
would seal his own fate as well as Chevie’s.

I must hide, he realized. But there was no
time for such tactics, as Waldo stepped
briskly into the living room brandishing a
metal tube.

“I will only use this,” he said, “if you at-
tempt to flee, if you attack me, or if you insist
in speaking in that ridiculous accent.” Riley
tested the spring of the cushions underneath
his feet. With my training, I could jump
clear over that little man’s head, like
Spring-Heeled Jack, he thought. That baton
of his won’t be much use if I stay beyond
arm’s length.

183/571
Riley bounced twice, then threw himself
into the air, arcing over Waldo’s head, leav-
ing the FBI agent no choice but to shoot him
in the stomach with the second charge from
his stun gun.

Riley’s head hit the floor with a thump,
and in his dream the thump was Albert Gar-
rick rapping him on the forehead with sharp
knuckles during a lesson.

“Attention, son,” he said. “This is one of
the basic principles of stage magic, which is
the kind we are stuck with presently.”

They were on stage at the Orient, where
Riley’s lessons were conducted. On these
boards he studied fencing, marksmanship,
strangulation, and poisons, as well as the
more
escapism and
camouflage.
“Now, I pose the question again: Where is
the guinea?”

exotic

skills

of

Riley stared at the three cups on the
boards where he knelt and hesitantly pointed

184/571
to the center cup, already knowing that the
coin would not be his.

“No, Riley,” said Garrick. “Though you
were a step closer this time.” He lifted the
cup on the left, revealing a shining coin be-
neath. “I gave your eyes the slip on the
second-to-last switch with a tap of my nail
on the center cup. Misdirection, you see? I
sent you toward what was not there.”

I understand, thought Riley, wishing that
somehow he could use misdirection to es-
cape from Garrick.

Someday, I will send you somewhere that
I have never been. And then I will give you
the slip for good.

Chevie woke up with plasti-cuffs around
her ankles and wrists securing her to the toi-
let. Her head throbbed with dull pain, and
drops of blood plinked into a pool between
her feet from the tip of her nose.

185/571
She was about to unleash a string of swear
words when she noticed Riley in the bath,
cuffed to the safety rail.

“Are you hurt?” she asked, the sentence’s

final t stabbing her brain on its way out.

Waldo! That moron. I will shave him

while he sleeps for this!

“No, miss,” said Riley. “Though that light-
ning rod knocked the stuffing out of me.
These cuffs have me baffled. They are slim-
mer than a shoelace, but I can’t even get a
stretch on ’em.”

Riley talked a little more about the cuffs
and their fantastic strength, but Chevie
zoned him out. What she needed was a mo-
ment or two of quiet time so her mind could
settle down a bit after the Tasering Waldo
had surprised her with.

I wasn’t expecting that. And how was it
possible that Felix Smart had put out a Be
On the Lookout for me on the network when
he never made it back from the past?

186/571
Unless he did come back and holds me re-

sponsible for all the mayhem?

It didn’t sound likely or plausible.
Orange was with the hazmat team. He

knows I didn’t kill them.

Riley was saying something. His tone was

insistent, urgent even.

Chevie blinked the stars from her vision.

“What? What is it, kid?”

“Your nose is bleeding, miss. Snort it up
and hawk the lot out in one go. That’s the
best thing for it.”

Snort it up and hawk it out.
Chevie did as she was told, spitting a ball
of blood into the sink, and was surprised to
find that the bleeding stopped immediately,
though the snorting did make her head hurt
a little more.

“Did Waldo shock you?”
“He did,” said Riley. “That electric pistol of
his had me dancing the dotard’s jig on the
floor. I woke just before you.”

187/571
“We need to get out of here, kid. You
opened your cuffs back in Bedford Square.
You got any more magic tricks down your
sock?”

Riley glared at his own tethered wrists as
though he could free them with mind power.
“Not one, miss. How do you open a set of
bracelets that don’t have no locks?”

You don’t was the answer to that question.
Chevie followed the logic of her train of

thought, ignoring the waves of pain.

“Okay. We’re secured but safe. Waldo has
the wrong end of the stick, but the cavalry
are on the way, and we can clear things up
when they get here. It doesn’t matter how
long it takes. So long as we’re in this room,
we stay alive.”

Riley frowned. “So this being trussed up

like market fowl is a good thing?”

“In a way, yes.”
“No offense, miss, but maybe you being a
female has clouded your judgment. If we

188/571
dangle here for much longer, Garrick will slit
our throats and watch us bleed. He won’t
even need to mop up after me, for heaven’s
sake, seeing as I am already in the tub.”

Chevie glanced sharply at the boy, sur-
prised that he would make a joke, even a
gruesome one, at such a time, but then she
saw the fear in the boy’s eyes.

The poor guy lives with terror on a daily

basis, she realized.

From the suite came the distinctive clatter
of armed men entering a room. Chevie heard
footsteps padding across the carpet and the
oily clicks of pistols’ safety catches being en-
gaged. Muted orders were issued, and Chevie
imagined agents taking up positions at en-
trances and other possible breach points.
“Hey,” she called. “Hey, you guys. In here.”

Seconds later an agent appeared at the
bathroom door, dressed in the FBI’s version
of Casual Male, which had been thirty years
out of date when they thought of it twenty

189/571
years ago. Tan chinos, blue Windbreaker,
button-down shirt, and rubber-soled shoes.
This guy might as well have had FBI written
on his back in big yellow letters, which, in
fact, he did have if you ripped away the Vel-
croed patch. The agent could not suppress a
smile when he saw Chevie on the toilet. He
drew a switchblade from his pocket and
pressed the catch, releasing the blade, as if
he were about to cut the plasti-cuffs, then re-
tracted the blade with a touch of the button
and pocketed the weapon.
“At ease, Savano. Don’t get up.”

Chevie scowled. She knew this guy from
back home. His name was Duff, and he had
been tight with Cord Vallicose, her favorite
instructor from Quantico. Vallicose had seen
potential
in his young student and taken
Chevie under his wing.

“Hilarious, Duff. You won’t be laughing so
hard when I get out of here and rearrange
your hairdo.”

190/571
Duff scowled back, obviously proud of his
perfect do. “Can it, Savano. You and your
little mystery buddy are in serious trouble.
I’m hearing talk that our hazmat boys are
MIA. The AD is on his way down from a
meeting in Scotland, so until he gets here,
keep your trap shut.”

Chevie swallowed her anger; she’d have
words with this guy when this was all over.
“Okay, Agent. I realize you’re doing your job,
and I would probably do the same thing my-
self if I was in your nineteen-fifties shoes,
though possibly with a little more empathy
and less jargon. But we have a scared boy
here, and with good reason. There’s a pretty
impressive guy on our tail, who probably
took out the entire hazmat team with a
musket.”

Duff sighed like this crazy talk made him
sad. “Yep, the BOLO said you were delusion-
al. London does that to a person. Can’t get a
decent pizza in the entire city.” He snapped

191/571
his fingers. “Hey, you know who I should tell
about this?” Chevie stiffened. “Don’t you
dare!”

Duff pulled a phone from his pocket and
made a big deal of focusing the camera. “No,
no really. Cord needs to know about this. He
said you were his finest student. This is
gonna break his heart.”

Duff snapped a couple of shots of Chevie
cuffed to the toilet and texted it across the
Atlantic to Cord Vallicose.

“Take this seriously, Duff!” said Chevie,
struggling to keep her voice down. She knew
this guy; the moment she shouted at him he
would simply walk away and slam the door.
“People are dying, and it’s not over yet. Take
your weapon off safety, tell your guys to look
sharp.”

Duff seemed on the point of taking her ser-
iously when a text jingled through on his
phone. He consulted the screen and smiled
broadly.

192/571
“It’s from Cord. You should read this—he’s
devastated.” And with a nasty chuckle Duff
backed out of the room, closing the door be-
hind him.

Albert Garrick arrived at the Garden Hotel
seconds after the London team, and could do
little but scowl in frustration as he watched
them hurry through the entrance. Six agents
in Windbreakers, blending in about as effect-
ively as a half dozen penguins would in the
chic lobby.

Garrick cursed them for fools, then treated
himself to a coffee from a nearby café while
he adjusted his plans. His BOLO had yielded
an almost immediate callback from Agent
Waldo Gunn, and Garrick had hoped to
reach the safe house before the inevitable
band of heavy-handed federal overkillers.
Except in this case it was not overkill. An en-
tire garrison of agents would not be enough
to keep him from Riley and the Timekey.

193/571
Had Garrick succeeded in reaching the
scene before the away team, he could simply
have taken what he wanted and disposed of
Waldo Gunn; but with six armed agents
keeping watch,
improvised violence could
not be relied upon. The odds were still in
Garrick’s favor, but Riley had skill in the
martial arts, having been taught by a master,
and Garrick had no desire to be felled by a
lucky strike from a child.

For a moment he allowed himself to be
mildly distracted by the changes that had
overhauled Monmouth Street since what he
had begun to think of as his day. Even
though Smart’s memories had prepared him
for the bright, shiny wonders of the present,
it was quite another thing to spy them first
hand.

In his day Monmouth Street had been
mainly penny digs, and by this time of night
it would be lined with residents taking great
amusement
juvenile

from the japes of

194/571
beggars trying to pry coin from the theater
crowds. Now, there were no beggars on the
street and barely an Englishman to be seen,
though if Smart’s memory served him cor-
rectly, they let anyone call themselves British
these days.

I might have something to say about that,

thought Garrick. When I am king.

He was, of course, joking. He had no de-
sire to be king. The prime minister held the
real power.

Garrick finished the really rather excellent
then strolled

coffee,
across the street to the Garden Hotel.

thanked the waiter,

Inside the safe suite, Waldo Gunn was not
happy. This place was blown, and he knew it.
After nearly a decade of caretaking this won-
derful location, with more than two hundred
at-risk subjects sheltered, the FBI away team
had rolled up in their black SUVs and
marched mob-handed into his discreet
haven. Discreet no more.

195/571
And, though Waldo was slightly miffed
that his own cushy posting was jeopardized,
his main worry was professional.

I don’t even know for certain who the bad
guy is, he thought. Agent Orange makes
strong claims against Agent Savano, but
nothing in her file suggests such a violent
nature. There was that infamous incident in
Los Angeles, but in my opinion she acted
heroically and lives were saved.

So now she’s a mass murderer? It didn’t
make sense. Everything was topsy-turvy
today. Instead of protecting fugitives, he was
detaining suspects. Even more irritating was
the sight of those clodhopping agents tramp-
ing all over his beautiful Italian rugs, and
now they were even trying on jackets from
the closet.

If one of them even looks at the Zegna suit,

I will shoot him myself, vowed Waldo.

“Oh, for heaven’s sake,” he called to a
lanky agent sprawled on the sofa. “Take your

196/571
the furniture. That’s a Carl

shoes off
Hansen!”

Waldo’s phone buzzed in his pocket, and it
was the dedicated buzz that meant the mes-
sage was on a coded channel and therefore
official business. He checked the screen and
saw the text was from Agent Orange. Short
and sweet: Coming up.

Great, thought Waldo, twisting his gray
beard to a point. Another fly in our over-
crowded ointment.

The doorbell to the suite chimed, and half
a dozen agents instantly threw various com-
bat shapes, training their weapons on every
flickering shadow.

“At ease, storm troopers,” said Waldo
drily, crossing the small lobby to the inter-
com. “It’s one of our own.”

Waldo Gunn knew that he would probably
choose to retire when this post went belly up.
There was no way he could integrate with an

197/571
office full of gun monkeys after twenty years
of culture at Covent Garden.

The intercom screen showed a single fig-

ure outside the door.

Waldo pressed the talk button. “Identifica-

tion, please.”

The man glared at the camera, as though
reaching into his pocket was an inconveni-
ence he didn’t have time for, then sighed and
pulled out his badge, flipping it close to the
lens.

It was Agent Orange, all right. Not a great

photograph, but definitely the same man.

Maybe so, thought Waldo. But the FBI
doesn’t operate on mugshots in our own fa-
cilities anymore. Why would we, when we
have biometrics?

“Thumb on the scanner, please,” he

ordered curtly.

“Really?”

said the man with Agent
Orange’s FBI badge and card. “I’m in a hurry
here. Don’t want to be stuck in the cold just

198/571
because some bucket of bolts can’t read my
digit.”

“Thumb on the scanner, if you please,” in-
sisted Waldo, not bothering to argue. If
Orange was in a hurry, he should simply
press the glass and be done with it.

“You’re the boss for now,” said Orange,
and he placed his right thumb on the scanner
bar, which took about five seconds longer
than usual before matching the print to the
one on file.

“See?” said Waldo. “That wasn’t so diffi-

cult. It’s just protocol.”

Waldo opened the door and shivered as a

chill wrapped itself around his legs.

Must be a window open, he thought. I

could have sworn I closed them all.

“The legendary Agent Waldo Gunn,” said
Agent Orange, extending a hand. “Protector
of lost sheep.”

199/571
“Legendary in certain circles,” said Waldo.
He shook the offered hand and thought in-
voluntarily, I don’t trust this man’s hand.

Waldo could not help glancing down. He
noticed that Orange’s fingers were slim as a
girl’s and the nails were as long.

Why the instinctive dislike? wondered
Waldo, and then he remembered one of his
mother’s various long-winded sayings: Never
trust a man with long nails, unless he’s a
guitar picker. A long-nailed man has never
done a day’s work in his life, not honest
work at any rate.

Orange relinquished Waldo’s hand and

stared over his shoulder into the suite.

“Quite a gathering you have here, Waldo,”
he said, his Scottish accent making the sen-
tence five seconds longer than it would usu-
ally be.

That accent would drive me crazy, thought
Waldo. It could take all day to finish a
conversation.

200/571

“What can I do for you, Agent Orange?”
Orange’s smile was wide and thin. “Isn’t it
obvious? I need you to release the suspects
into my custody.”

Waldo bristled at the idea, which was so
outlandish that he initially thought Orange
was joking. “Your custody? That’s hardly
procedure. These are suspects in an investig-
ation. You are not an investigator.”

Orange seemed saddened by this attitude.

“Perhaps not, but I do outrank you, Waldo.”

Suddenly Waldo did not appreciate this
man calling him by his first name. “That’s
Special Agent Gunn, if you please. And for
your information, nobody outranks me in
this suite. As officer in charge, I can trump
the president himself if I deem it necessary.
At any rate, the Assistant Director is on his
way, and he has ordered that nobody inter-
fere with the subjects until he arrives.”

“But they killed my entire hazmat team!”
objected Orange. “No quarter was given,

201/571
though it was asked. I was lucky to escape
with my life.”

No quarter was given, thought Waldo.
Quaint choice of words. “You do seem re-
markably alive. And unscathed, too. Where
are the bodies?”

Orange coughed into his fist. “That’s delic-
ate and strictly need to know. It’s connected
to our operation, which is about
fifteen
grades above your security clearance. I could
tell you, but then . . .”

“You’d have to kill me,” said Waldo, com-

pleting the hackneyed phrase.

“And your family,” added Orange, straight-

faced.

Waldo’s instinctive dislike of

this Scot
burned brighter. “There’s no call to be rude.
We have a procedure in place here, and
that’s the end of it. You may wait in the
lounge if you wish, but there will be no con-
tact with the suspects. After all, we only have

202/571
your word for it that the detainees are guilty
of anything.”

Orange’s smile never wavered. “That’s an
excellent point. Unfortunately, I am not in a
mood to be detained at the moment, and as
you pointed out, you outrank me only inside
the suite. And I am outside. So I shall par-
take of another excellent coffee from the es-
tablishment across the street and return later
when the big-knob bluebottle has joined the
party.” Orange stopped suddenly and his
eyes brightened as though lit from within.
“Can it be?” he cried, his accent suddenly
less Scottish. “Why, I swear that it is.”

Waldo was reluctantly intrigued. “What is?

It is what?”

Orange gazed past the suite’s custodian in-
to the room itself. “Blow me if I haven’t been
here before.”

“I think you’re mistaken,” said Waldo in
the most patronizing tone he could muster.
“I have a log of every single person who has

203/571
set foot across this threshold in the past
twenty years, and you are not on it.”

Orange was so delighted that he actually
clapped his hands. “This was years ago,
Waldo. Many years ago. If I remember it
right,
character
answered the landlord’s rap in those days.”

an exceedingly dodgy

“Fascinating story, really. But if you won’t
come in, you must leave. Security and all
that.”

Orange doffed his cap, revealing a head of
hair that seemed gray or black depending on
the incline of his head. “And all that, indeed,
Waldo. A quick coffee bath for the ivories,
and I shall return. Watch for me, won’t you?”
Neither man offered his hand upon part-
ing, but Waldo Gunn flicked through differ-
ent camera views on the security screen so
that he could watch Orange all the way to
Monmouth Street.

“I will watch for you, Agent Orange,” he
said between his teeth. “You give your ivories

204/571
their coffee bath, and I will watch for you like
a hawk.”

Waldo placed a hand on his round stom-
ach, the result of too many fried Cumberland
sausages and late night hot chocolates with
Chantilly swirls.

What is that feeling? he wondered, trying
to match an emotion to the acid churning in
his belly.

Waldo Gunn realized that, for the first
time in twenty years, he did not feel safe in
his own fortress.

Don’t be ridiculous, he told himself.
Orange is a disconcerting character, that is
all. He’s not dangerous.

But Waldo Gunn’s subconscious was try-
ing to tell him something, and the portly
agent really should have listened.

•••

205/571
Garrick ignored the coffee shop and virtually
skipped down the Garden’s service alley, still
hardly crediting his good fortune at having
previously cracked this establishment.

He found that he could roll through his
memory like a moving-picture show and find
each frame as clear as reality, smells and all.
He remembered this house well. In his
day, a flourishing bootmaker’s shop had
stood on the ground floor, with a brass plate
in the window claiming Charles Dickens
himself as a patron, which was difficult to
contest as by then the great novelist had
been dead for nigh on a decade.

Above the bootmaker’s lived the dodgy
character with a curious name. Billtong . . .
no . . . Billtoe, that was it. George Billtoe had
passed a sheaf of homemade pound notes in
Barnet Horse Fair and incurred the wrath of
a certain gang, who did not appreciate their
turf being poached without ask nor license.

206/571
The gang’s wrath was embodied in the form
of Albert Garrick.

Vengeance from above, thought Garrick.

As I came down the chimney.

George Billtoe had heard rumors that pa-
pers had been passed on him, and he grew
increasingly secretive and prudent, barricad-
ing himself into the upstairs apartment, em-
ploying an urchin to run his errands. Garrick
was forced to use all his skills as a contor-
tionist to inch his way down the man’s
chimney.

Garrick chuckled. On that night he had ac-
tually roused Billtoe before slitting his
throat, just so the mark would realize that
his precautions had counted for nothing.

Happy days. How he and Riley had

chortled over that faker’s folly.

Garrick remembered acting out the entire
episode, right down to Billtoe’s stunned final
plea for mercy before he gave him a close
shave across the Adam’s apple.

207/571
The magician smiled at the memory as he
scaled the hotel fire escape to the third floor,
sliding silent as a shadow across the cast-
iron steps. The top step stood eight feet be-
low a flat copper roof, which offered a wide
lip and ample grip for a man of Garrick’s
abilities. He trusted the strength of his fin-
gers and launched himself upward from the
railing, grasping the cold copper rim and
swinging himself bodily onto the flat roof.

Across the dull copper he ran, hunched to
avoid the prying eyes of curtain twitchers,
bent so low that his torso was horizontal and
Orange’s sharp nose cut the night air like a
beagle’s.

This is indeed the life of champions,
thought Albert Garrick. A fresh breeze from
the Thames, preternatural quantum powers,
and a room full of Yankee bully boys to test
my skills against. Magic is real and lives in-
side my person.

208/571
The chimney was where he remembered it,
a red and yellow brick stack bound with
crumbling mortar, weather-stained, perhaps,
but otherwise virtually unchanged. Even
during Billtoe’s residency the chimney had
been out of service, plastered up at the base
with a line of cracked clay pots that had not
diffused smoke in many a decade. Garrick
brushed the pots aside with a cavalier sweep
of his arm and heaved the chimney cap from
its perch.
Not even a slap of mortar, he thought, al-
most disappointed. These federals are sup-
posed to be the world’s finest.

The chimney pipe stretched below him
from dark to pitchdark. There was no com-
forting smell of soot that would have re-
minded Garrick of home, but there was the
feeling of depth and drop and the sour gust
of damp. The magician swung his legs easily
over the stack and sat on the rim, peering
down.

209/571

It’s narrow as I remember.

Garrick’s breadth of shoulder could barely
shaft, even on the

squeeze down that
diagonal.

Last time descending this box took some
time and a fifth of nerve, thought Garrick.
This time will be different.

Garrick used his quantum abilities to or-
der his shoulder ligaments to slacken so that
the ball of his humerus popped out of his
socket.

No pain, he told his sensory neurons. I
need my senses sharp, and last time I des-
cended through this shaft the agony was a
chink in my plate.

Garrick had always been a touch short-
sighted but enjoyed excellent night vision,
which he attributed to boiled vegetable
poultices that he molded into his eye sockets
two nights a week, then ate for breakfast in
the mornings.

210/571
Even so, he thought, using his good arm to
hoist himself into the black shaft, no harm in
opening my pupils a little to trap the ambient
light.

Garrick smiled, his teeth shining like can-

died lemon drops in the gloom.

Ambient light? Smart, my friend, I cannot
thank you enough for educating thyself so
thoroughly on your multifarious interests.

Garrick’s pupils zoomed till they filled his
irises and he could see black spiders hiding
in the black hole of a dark chimney at night.

This is what magic really is, he thought. An
open mind. Garrick cranked his knees apart
until
then
lowered himself into the darkness like a de-
mon descending into hell.

they braced his body weight,

Inside the bathroom of the safe house, Ri-
ley was wondering if his brain had been
somehow etherized by his trip. Or if he had
suffered some form of mind malady brought
on by a life of continual terror.

211/571
I feel nothing. Even my fear is fading.
Perhaps I am in a sanatorium somewhere
wearing the lunatic’s overalls.

And yet this futuristic fantasy was particu-
larly detailed. Miss Sav-a-no was plainer to
him now than any individual he had ever
spied. He could make out the drops of sweat
on her brow as she worried the plastic ties on
her wrists. He could hear her teeth grind in
frustration and see the cords of her long neck
stand out like a schooner’s rigging.

“Are you looking at something in particu-

lar?” said Chevie.

Riley started to mumble a denial, but

Chevie interrupted him.

“You want to hear something ironic, kid?”
“Yes, miss. As you please.”
She tugged on her cuffs, which held her
arms fast around the toilet’s plumbing. “I
find it ironic that I could really use a bath-
room right now.”

Riley tried not to smile.

“And this

is

212/571
ironic because you are

tethered to a bowl and yet cannot use it?”

“Exactly.”
“Thank you, Chevie. I have often en-
countered the term irony in my reading but
never truly understood it till now.”

“To educate and protect,” said Chevie.
“Though I’ve been falling down a little on the
protecting.”

“It was bad luck that you came up against
Albert Garrick. Of all the coves you could
have scooped out of the past, he is the worst,
no doubt about it.”

“He’s

just a man, you know, Riley.
Whatever you think about him, that’s all he
is.”

Riley slumped in the bath. “No. There are
men who are somehow more than men. Gar-
rick has always been one of these, and now
even more so. The trip from the past has giv-
en him gifts, I would swear on it.”

Gifts, thought Chevie. Or mutations.

213/571
“Garrick is truly beyond your experience,”

continued Riley. “Mine too.”

“You make him sound like Jack the

Ripper.”

This casual reference caused the blood to
drain from Riley’s face as a memory hit him
like a mallet, and while his mind wandered,
Chevie shifted her focus to the room beyond.
For the last fifteen minutes the only sounds
had been typical agents-on-babysitting-duty
noises: sharp comments, jock laughter, cof-
fee percolating, and an almost
incessant
flushing from the second bathroom.

“Hey!” she called. “Waldo! Duff! You want
to open the door? We’re feeling a bit unloved
in here.”

In response someone turned up the TV.
The loud bass of dance music bounced off
the door.

“I hate those guys,” muttered Chevie. “I
am going to work real hard, get promoted,
then fire every last one of them.” She noticed

214/571
Riley’s stricken face. “Are you okay, kid?
Riley?”

Riley’s eyes came back to the present.
“Garrick told me a story once about old
Leather Apron, Jack the Ripper. He playac-
ted the whole thing in our digs.”

“Don’t tell me, Garrick is Jack the Ripper.”
Riley’s head jerked backward as if Garrick
would hear this accusation. “No. Certainly
not. Garrick hated Jack the Ripper.”

Chevie kept one ear on the noises outside

and the other on Riley’s tale.

“He hated the Ripper? Weren’t those guys

like peas in a pod?”

Riley sat up as far as he could. “No. Oh, no.
Old Jack did what Garrick would never do.
He courted the bluebottles and the press
gentlemen. Sent ’em notes and so forth. Gave
himself a nickname. Garrick prided himself
on being a like specter with his business, and
here was this night slasher leaving kidneys

and
hearts
Whitechapel.”

strewn

about

all

215/571
over

Riley’s eyes glazed over as he lost himself

in the story.

“The Ripper was busy before Garrick got
me, but the case obsessed him for years after.
I knew to stay clear if the papers were run-
ning a story on Jack. Until one night Garrick
comes home, just as the sun hangs between
the spires. He shakes me gentle, like we are
genuine family, and his touch was so soft
that I came out of my dream thinking my
father had come and I says, ‘Father?’”

Riley paused to spit toward the plughole.
“I was barely eight years in the world and
knew no better, but the word is magical to
Garrick, and he smiles like Alice’s cat. ‘I sup-
pose
is my
responsibility.’

am,’ he

I

says.

‘That

“I am full awake by this point and more
than a little afraid. Garrick is covered from
head to foot
like he’d been

in blood,

216/571
swimming in the slaughterhouse trough.
Even his teeth are red. He must’ve seen how
scared I was, for he says then, ‘Don’t worry,
son. This is not my blood. Jack will be rip-
ping no more.’ And then he waits for this
nugget to sink in.

“It takes me a moment, but I gets it. ‘You
killed Leather Apron? Ripper Jack himself?
But he is from hell,’ says I.

“This draws a guffaw from Garrick. ‘He’s
in hell now,’ he says. ‘His soul, at any rate.
His body is sleeping with the rotting corpses
of common hoodlums in the sludge on the
Thames’s bed.’

“I know Garrick doesn’t like questions, but
one pops out before I can stop it: ‘How did
you find a demon, sir?’ But he isn’t angry; he
seems to be in a mood for questions.

“‘Aha,’ says he, tapping his forehead. ‘With
man’s deadliest weapon: the brain. Jack was
a creature of habits, and that was his undo-
ing. The first five girls were done in a frenzy,

217/571
but after that Jack calmed himself and used
the moon as his clock. For three years now
I’ve been patrolling Whitechapel and Spit-
alfields on the nights of the full moon, and fi-
nally he shows outside the Ten Bells.’ Garrick
laughs then.
‘It’s barely credible, this so-
called genius plans to snatch yet another girl
from the Bells. I spotted him right off, a toff
in common getup, all twitchy with nerves.’

“Garrick leaned over me then. I remember
blood dripping onto my forehead and I
thought, That’s Leather Apron’s blood.”

Chevie was so enthralled by the story that
she wouldn’t have moved even if the plasti-
cuffs had miraculously fallen from her
wrists.

“‘I let him take a girl, just to be sure,’ Gar-
rick says. ‘And I trail him from the rooftops
down to Buck’s Row. I can hear them talking
and joking about poor Polly Nichols, who
was done for at this very spot. Old Jack had a
surprisingly
him,

feminine

giggle

on

218/571
something he never boasted about to the pa-
pers. And all the time I am looming overhead
with my favorite Cinquedea blade all blacked
up and ready for blood.’ He showed me the
short sword then. It had not been washed,
and the blood was thick and lumped with
gore.”

If Chevie had not been so engrossed in the
tale, she might have noticed that, while there
was still noise coming from outside the bath-
room,
the sounds of agents joking had
ceased and there were thumping sounds that
could not be attributed to the music pump-
ing from the television’s speakers.

“‘As soon as he pulls out his own blade, a
common-as-muck scalpel, I leaped down
from on high and had him open from neck to
nave. It was a clean swipe, like something
from the theater. He went down like they all
do, no special powers, no memorable last
words. The girl was rightly grateful and fell
to her knees, calling me Lordship. I should

219/571
have killed her, I know, me lad. But the
street was dark and my face was blacked, and
so I simply says, “Tell your friends that Lon-
don is rid of Bloody Jack,” and lets her run
off for herself. It was a moment of weakness,
but I was feeling well disposed toward the
world. And then, what’s this? A little moan
from the cobbles. My boy Jacky is still
breathing. “Not for long,” says I, and set to
work. Before he goes, Jack confesses to nine-
teen murders, with something of a gleam in
his eye. “Nineteen?” says I to him. “I done
twice that last year alone.” His heart gave out
after that.’”

Riley drew a shuddering breath. “And that
was when I realized that Albert Garrick was
indeed the devil.”

The bathroom door buckled suddenly as a
body was hurled forcibly against it. The crash
startled Riley from his reverie. Again the
door heaved, this time coming away from its
hinges entirely,
falling into the room,

220/571
weighed down by the unconscious form of
Agent Duff.

A dark figure appeared in the doorway and

seemed to glide into the room.

“Orange?” said Chevie, but she saw almost
immediately that, while the figure resembled
the FBI agent, it was not in fact him.

Riley looked into the man’s cruel, dead
eyes. “No. No, it’s my master. Now do you
understand?”

Albert Garrick hammed it up for Chevie,

striking a pose, then he gave a deep bow.

“Albert Garrick, West End illusionist and
assassin-for-hire at your
service, young
lady—come down the chimney to introduce
myself proper.”

As he bowed, a drop of someone else’s
blood fell from his nose, landing on Chevie’s
forehead, and she was struck to her core with
a terror that she could barely contain.

“Now I understand,” she said.

Victoriana

LONDON. 1898

Albert Garrick had been apprenticed to the
Great Lombardi for more than ten years, and
in that time the little Italian became like a
second father to the orphan boy. But young
Albert never forgot his first father, who had
killed for him, and it was years before the
nightmares of those cholera days in the Old
Nichol faded and he stopped worrying every
time a patch of dry skin appeared on his el-
bow or his eyes seemed a little sunken.

Lombardi worked him hard but was not
cruel and never once struck him unless he

222/571
deserved it. They traveled the length and
breadth of England, working the theaters,
and once even took the Boulogne ferry for a
summer season in Paris’s Théâtre Italien,
where sections of Lombardi’s act were woven
into a street scene for a Verdi opera. Lom-
bardi wept at the final curtain every night
and often told young Albert that he saw
working with Verdi as the crowning achieve-
ment of his career.

“I have searched all my life for real magic,”
he said some years later as he lay dying from
tuberculosis in their digs in Newcastle upon
Tyne. “And I found it in the music of Verdi.
An Italian. Dio lo benedica.”

Lombardi died that night, forcing his ap-
prentice to appear in his stead at the Journ-
al. The night was not an unqualified success,
but many of the doves survived, which en-
couraged young Albert to adopt the Lom-
bardi name and to fulfill his master’s
engagements.

223/571
Garrick inherited not only his master’s
bookings but his assistant, too. Sabine was
the most exotic and beautiful creature Albert
had ever seen, and he’d been in love with her
since that first day, when he had watched,
slack jawed, as she emerged unscathed from
Lombardi’s Egyptian saw-box.

THE GARDEN HOTEL, MONMOUTH STREET.

LONDON. NOW

And now, in the Garden Hotel, Garrick felt
an echo of the passion of his youth as he took
his first proper look at Chevron Savano.

She looks like Sabine, thought Garrick,

gazing down at the girl.

He cupped Chevie’s jaw in his hand, tilting

it back. It’s uncanny, the resemblance.

And another part of his brain told him,
There’s a passing likeness, nothing more.
Garrick was shaken, all
the same. His

224/571
resolution to pierce this maid’s heart had
evaporated like morning mist.

What is happening to me?
Garrick bowed once more to Chevie. “Beg
pardon, Miss Savano. I need a moment to
gather my thoughts.”

Garrick ducked out of the bathroom and
strode to the kitchenette, where there stood
what looked like a squat refrigerator of the
American style. Garrick pulled open the door
and inside, instead of rows of chilled food
and beverages, he saw Agent Waldo Gunn,
sitting behind a sheet of bulletproof glass.

Garrick knew from Orange’s expertise that
this fake fridge was a personal panic pod and
was just as secure as the president’s bunker
under the White House.

Waldo sat shivering behind the glass, as
though he were seated in a real refrigerator.
He punched numbers into his phone with
shaking fingers.

“This pod is not in the system,

225/571
is it,
Waldo?” said Garrick. “You have been aug-
menting your security.”

Garrick slammed the door so hard the
catch snapped, and the door swung open.
The fact that Waldo had been able to secure
himself made Garrick’s own escape more ur-
gent. The FBI would be aware of his exist-
ence now and would soon be— what was the
expression?—hot on his trail. This century
was becoming a dangerous place. Time to go
home.

No more dallying! he told himself. In
there you go, mate. And kill her. She is puny
and helpless. One slice across the windpipe
will more than do the trick. The noise will be
distasteful, but there it is—too late now to be
letting your qualms get in the way.

Garrick froze in mid-pace.
My qualms? But I don’t have qualms.
And, in a bolt of self-awareness, it came to

him.

226/571
These are Smart’s qualms. He was fond of
this Savano girl, and this fondness bleeds
across my neurons, reinforcing this false
identification with Sabine. This young wo-
man is no more a reincarnation of Sabine
than she is of Her Majesty, Queen Vic. I
shall kill her and be well rid of an
adversary.

Garrick stocked up on weaponry from the
FBI arsenal,
including Duff’s switchblade,
which he had casually knocked from the
agent’s grasp.

How charming,

thought Garrick. The
standard of weaponry has really improved.
Killing in this time will be so much easier.

This notion cheered him immensely and
he reentered the bathroom, bolstered for his
grisly work.

Inside the bathroom, Chevie had her foot
hooked underneath the unconscious Agent
Duff’s chin and was trying to haul him

227/571
toward her when Garrick’s frame filled the
doorway.

“Most enterprising, Agent. Perhaps he has
a blade of some sort on his person? One nev-
er knows, eh?”

Chevie glared at the assassin belligerently.
“You killed them all, didn’t you? Smart, the
hazmat team, those officers outside?”

Garrick twirled the blade. “Not all,” he

said, nodding pointedly at Duff. “Not yet.”

Chevie withdrew her foot, hoping that Duff
at least would be spared. “Riley was right
about you.”

“Oh?” said Garrick, prepared to listen to
this before silencing this girl forever. “And
what did my wayward assistant say?”

“He said that we could never stop you.
That you would cross heaven and hell to find
him.”

Garrick tousled Riley’s hair, and the boy
forced himself not to jerk his head away from
the touch.

228/571
“Time and space, to be precise,” said Gar-
rick. “And I picked up a few valuable tidbits
on my travels.” As he was saying this, Gar-
rick knelt and placed the tip of
the
switchblade over Duff’s chest. “But one les-
son I learned long before this particular
jaunt was not to leave any witnesses. Not un-
less I want to swing for the kindness.”

“Let me do it, master,” blurted Riley. “To
make it up to you for all the blundering and
trouble I’ve put you to.”

Garrick was touched, but wary.

“You

would make your bones? Now?”

“Your way is the only way,” said Riley. “I
see that now. The time has come for me to
embrace my destiny. To back the winning
horse.”

Garrick tapped his own chin with the
blade, then leaned forward to slice Riley’s
cuffs.

“I have no patience for tomfoolery or hes-
itations, Riley. Strike quickly and earn

229/571
yourself a footnote in my good books. Other-
wise I will be treating you as a hostile.”

Riley took the offered blade. “I am grateful
for the chance, master. You can count on
me.”

Chevie could only hope that Riley was
making a play; otherwise, if he actually in-
tended to do whatever it took to keep himself
alive, that might include killing her and Duff
both.
In any case, she had to appear
outraged.

“Don’t do it, kid,” she warned. “You kill a

Fed, and there will be nowhere to hide.”

Garrick smiled slyly. “Oh, but there is a
place, isn’t there, Agent? Or perhaps a time?”
Riley held the blade in his fist and then
moved so fast that even Garrick’s eyebrows
lifted. He twirled the knife a full revolution
and then slid it cleanly between Duff’s third
and fourth ribs, directly above the heart. A
poppy-shaped bloodstain blossomed at the

230/571
spot and quickly soaked the material of the
agent’s crisp shirt.

“There,” said Riley, his voice quavering
slightly. “It is done. And no big deal either.
Shall I send the other one off also? Unto
dust, as you always say, master.”

“Murderer!” cried Chevie, aiming a kick at
Riley, which Garrick deflected with the heel
of one hand.

“All credit to you, boy. That was a clean
puncture. In like a hot poker through snow.”

“The girl, master?”
“No,”

said Garrick,

taking back the
switchblade. “Though every strike binds you
to me with blood, I must do this one myself.”
Garrick grasped Chevie’s chin with his fin-
gers. They felt like steel pincers along her
jawline. He ratcheted her head backward,
carefully removed the Timekey from her
neck, and laid the blade along her windpipe.

231/571
Chevie flinched as her life flashed before
her eyes, just as the movies had told her it
would.

She saw her teacher’s face, kind and wor-
ried, as she rescued her student from the
clutches of a briar patch on the Topanga
Canyon trail. She saw her father’s motorbike
accelerate around a bend on the Pacific Coast
Highway, and she knew now he would never
return, that his fuel tank would explode as he
passed through Venice Beach. She saw her
friend Nikki riding a big wave on Cross Creek
beach, her hands reaching toward the sky as
though she could grab onto a cloud.

The images faded, and Chevie discovered
to her surprise that she was still alive. Gar-
rick crouched over her, spine curved, a grim-
ace dragging at the corners of his mouth. A
man at war with his demons.

You must prevail, Albert Garrick, he

thought. Your mind is your own.

232/571
Chevie was afraid to breathe. The tiniest
movement would press her tender throat
against the razor-sharp blade.

Do it, Garrick told himself. Make the cut.

Unto dust.

Riley tried to take advantage of Garrick’s
hesitation. “Master, leave the lass be. It’s me
you’re after. Leave her, and let’s away.”

Garrick rounded on the boy, pointing the
switchblade at his eye. “You are plum correct
there, my lad. I have come for you, and you
proved yourself worthy. Now make yourself
useful and check the gentlemen beyond for
heartbeats.”

Riley hesitated at the door. “We are not
clear of this yet, master. Perhaps a hostage
would be useful?”

Garrick seized upon this notion. It gave
him a legitimate reason for not harming the
girl.

233/571
“Perhaps a hostage would be of use. But I
fear this one will rebel when an opportunity
presents itself.”

“I will vouch for her,” said Riley.
“Do you understand what you are saying?”
asked Garrick. “You are offering yourself to
pay for her crimes? Her punishment will be
yours? And you yourself are teetering on the
edge of the abyss after your escape attempt,
even with that kill. I will brook not one more
scrap of insubordination.”

“I understand, master. Perhaps she can

help us.”

Garrick closed one eye and the other

glittered. “Us, is it? There’s an us now?”

Riley waited for his master’s response with
held breath. He knew that Garrick would not
hesitate to kill Chevie simply to make his ar-
gument clear, but something held him back.

I was right. Garrick has changed, Riley ob-
served. His posture, the meat on his bones.
Even his tone seems different.

234/571
“Very well,” said Garrick, after a tantaliz-
ing silence. “We take the girl. But if she does
betray me . . . you both pay the price.”

Riley sighed, relieved that Chevie would
live, even though she would probably kill
him given the chance.

Garrick gazed down at her. “You are as
transparent as a window at Fortnum and
Mason’s to me, girl. You are thinking at this
instant that so long as you are alive, then
there is a chance of escape.”

Garrick bent low over Chevie, tracing her
eyebrow with the tip of his blade. “Abandon
all hope,” he whispered. “For hope has aban-
doned ye.”

Chevie believed him, and so did the boy.

Garrick was positively ebullient to have Riley
back. He had an audience again, swelled to
twice its size.

“Numbers in the stalls are up by a hundred
percent,” he commented to Riley as they

235/571
rode in the black cab toward Bedford Square.
“It must be a good show.”

Chevie and Riley sat opposite him on the
fold-down seats. Chevie was traumatized
from stepping over the half dozen federal
corpses in the safe suite.

Duff was a jerk, thought Chevie. But he
was a human jerk. Chevie had never seen so
much death and was more shaken than she
had imagined she would be in a combat situ-
ation. Her only consolation had been the
sight of Waldo Gunn safe inside his panic
pod.
At least Waldo knows I am not a murderer.
But this scrap of comfort did little to dispel

the shock that crushed her spirit.

Riley, on the other hand, had lived his life
in Victorian London, where murder was rare
but life was cheap. Many poor children died
at birth; if they did survive that first day, the
odds were that cholera, smallpox, scarlet
fever, or whooping cough would do them in

236/571
before their fifth birthday. Riley had seen the
grim reaper’s handiwork more times than he
could count.

Life and death are two ends of the same
ride, Garrick had once told him. Nothing to
celebrate or mourn.

And so Riley told himself to stay sharp, or
he and Miss Savano could be coming to the
end of their own rides.

Someday I may mourn all the souls Albert
Garrick has done in, he thought. But not this
day. This day is for fighting.

It was the early hours of the morning, and
the streets were alive with die-hard revelers
and city workers, winding along Tottenham
Court Road under the eyes of coppers who
walked the beat in pairs. Motorized street
sweepers scoured the road with their bristled
brushes, throwing up wakes of muddied wa-
ter; and in the shop windows, employees of a
dozen electronics stores switched on a thou-
sand television and computer screens.

237/571
“Pleasantly warm,” noted Garrick, tapping
the knife in his breast pocket, so that Chevie
would not forget that it was there or what it
could do. “What is the season?”
“Summer,” said Chevie sullenly.

Garrick sighed, and his face seemed to
slide like melting butter until the features
were his own again.

The face of an accountant, thought Chevie.
Or a geography teacher. Not a merciless
assassin.

Garrick punched Riley’s shoulder play-
fully. “Ah . . . summer in London, without
the stench of decay in our nostrils, and the
two of us finally brothers in enterprise.
Could there be anything finer? Almost a pity
we have to go home, eh, boy?”

“Why do you want to go back?” asked

Chevie.

Garrick tugged at the Timekey around his
neck. “In spite of my new abilities, this world
is new to me. I am at a disadvantage here,

238/571
and a fugitive to boot. When I return to my
own time, London town will be my oyster.
Can you imagine what I could achieve with
my understanding of the future? In the field
of armaments alone, I could change the
world.”

“A psychopath who wants to take over the

planet. How original.”

Riley drew a sharp breath, anticipating
swift punishment for such an impudent com-
ment, but to his surprise Garrick almost
seemed to be enjoying the exchange.

Garrick slapped his thigh. “Oh, Chevron,
you are a tonic. The odds are stacked against
you higher than the Tower of London and
still you are full to the gills with pluck. I see
now why Felix was fond of you.”

Chevie snorted.

“Felix? Fond of me?

You’ve been misinformed.”

“Felix and I were . . . close before he died,”
said Garrick cryptically. “Felix was fond of
you, even if he was not fully aware of it.”

“So you knew, but he didn’t?”
Garrick half hid a smug smile behind his

239/571

hand. “In a way, yes.”

The magician’s smile evaporated when the
cab turned the corner onto Bedford Square
and the house on Bayley Street came into
view. The railings were crisscrossed with po-
lice tape, and two FBI agents in blue Wind-
breakers stood out front, flanked by Metro-
politan police officers with machine guns
slung across their chests. Obviously Waldo
had redirected some of the FBI response
team to Bedford Square and called in the loc-
als to boot.

“We should have walked,” said Chevie.

“We might have gotten here quicker.”

Garrick gnawed on a knuckle. “Quiet, girl.
Do not force me to commit murder for the
sake of a moment’s silence.”

Garrick considered the heavily armed

officers.

240/571
Even an individual of my expertise could
not be expected to take on the entire police
force, he concluded, especially not ones with
machine guns. Though according to Smart’s
experiences, the bobbies are much hampered
by their own constitution. Apparently they
cannot even dump vagrants into the Thames
anymore. But even so, they would have no
qualms about cutting down an assassin at-
tempting to gain access to the building.

While Garrick was thinking, Riley stole a
glance at Chevie. Her face was tight and her
muscles coiled, though she tried to appear at
ease; and it was clear to Riley that she inten-
ded to try her luck with Garrick in this con-
fined space.

She thinks I’m on his side, he thought.
And I cannot let her know the truth without
also alerting Garrick.

Garrick had obviously noticed Chevie’s at-
titude, for he pointed a finger at the boy. “Ri-
ley,
tell your new friend to rethink her

241/571
strategy. If she takes aggressive action, I will
gut her before the seat belt is off, and knife
the cabbie for spite.”

Luckily the cabbie was separated from
them by a plastic screen and did not realize
his life was a tool for barter.

“Here we are, mate,” he called over his
shoulder. “Bayley Street. You might spot a
few celebs up around here. House on the
corner went for forty million pounds last
month. There’s no recession in this manor,
I’ll tell you that.”

Garrick rolled his eyes. “Apparently the
verbosity of London cabbies is constant
through the ages.” He knocked on the
plastic. “I have a new destination for you,
driver. Take us to the Wolseley. A friend told
me about this café, and I feel it would be just
the ticket for our ravenous group. Down Pic-
cadilly, if you please, I do not wish to take
the tourists’ route.”

242/571
“No worries,” said the cabbie. “I know this
city better than the wife knows the inside of
my wallet. Strike me dead if I try to cheat
you.”

Garrick hid his face as they passed the

armed police.

“That is exactly what I shall do,” he said.
By the time the cabbie drew in front of the
Wolseley, the restaurant was open for early
breakfast. Garrick selected a booth in the
window and studied the menu with coos of
delight
that drew attention from other
diners.

“What say you, son? Kedgeree or kippers?
Why not both, eh? It is a special occasion,
after all.”

Chevie sat by the window, hemmed in
between the glass and the magician’s ap-
prentice, hampered by the table.

I need to make a move, she thought.
Orange’s last instruction to me was to guard
the Timekey.
I will not botch another

243/571
mission. I must get that key back. And I can’t
rely on Riley to help me.

All traces of Smart were gone now. The
person sitting opposite her was a genuine
magician from the past, and as if to prove it,
he charmed the waitress, pulling a salt
shaker from behind her ear and Felix Smart’s
platinum MasterCard from behind his own.

said, his

“I believe this is what passes for money
these days,” he
like
something from an old black-and-white Sh-
erlock Holmes movie. “Make sure to add a
ten percent gratuity for yourself, my dear,
pretty as you are.”

accent

The girl was used to big tippers. “I think
I’m pretty enough for twenty percent,” she
said, not even bothering to smile.

Garrick waved a magnanimous hand.
“Why not take thirty?” he said. “We Smarts
are a generous breed.”

The waitress pulled a pen from the belt of
her apron and took Garrick’s order. The

244/571
magician selected three kinds of eggs:
poached, fried, and scrambled. Kedgeree and
kippers. Toast, muffins, and American pan-
cakes with syrup. Sausages, bacon, and
potato cakes. Oatmeal and granola. Orange
juice, grapefruit juice, and a large pot of cof-
fee. Riley opted for hot chocolate and a full
English breakfast, while Chevie asked for a
glass of water.

Obviously murder gives a person an appet-

ite, she thought.

“Not hungry, Agent?” Garrick asked her.
Chevie smiled tightly. “I’m feeling a bit off.

Must be all the corpses.”

Garrick winked at Riley. “You grow accus-
tomed to that. Look at my partner here, an
apprentice no more. He’ll be tucking into his
bacon like the hangman’s waiting for him in
the square.”

“Yeah,” said Chevie. “Maybe he is. That’s
what happens when you kill everyone you
meet.”

245/571
“I haven’t killed you yet, Miss Savano. Per-

haps after breakfast, eh?”

Riley was silent throughout this exchange.
He wished only to sleep and perhaps dream
of a beach and the red-haired boy.

Beware the undertow—it’ll have yer legs

out from under you.

Had the boy really said that, or was his
mind inventing a past for himself? Riley
shook his head to dislodge the familiar fog
that settled over his brain when he was in
Garrick’s company. He generally let his mind
float away, but today was different. Chevie’s
life was at stake as well as his own.

The last thing Riley wanted was a fry-up,
but his body was hungry and, as Garrick al-
ways said, Eat up, boy. Your next meal will
probably be your last.

“You should eat, Chevie.”
Garrick’s hand darted across the table and
clipped Riley’s ear. “Chevie? Who are you
now, son? The Prince of Wales? Ladies will

246/571
be referred to by their titles. This is Agent
Savano or miss to you.”

Chevie was unimpressed. “Wow, manners.
Cool. I had thought you were a murdering
psycho, but now you’ve won me over.”

Garrick sighed, weary now of the girl’s
comments. “This constant melodrama is so
wearing. Isn’t there anything I can do to per-
suade you to be civil, at least while we are at
table?”

Psychology 101: get the subject to talk
about himself. Any information learned
might come in useful later, if there was a
later.

“You could tell me what you are, exactly.”
Garrick seriously considered this. It would
be nice to share the details of his transforma-
tion; but then again, too much knowledge
was too much power, so perhaps he would
sketch in broad strokes. “I know that Felix
went over the basics with you. Wormholes
through time, and so forth. When Felix and I

time

tunnel

247/571
traveled the
together, we
merged. I am still in control, but Felix is def-
initely a part of me.”
“You killed him?”
“I killed most of him. And it was self-de-

fense: he did detonate a bomb.”

“So you can do stuff with what’s left of

Felix? Tricks?”

“Ah, yes, of course. A trick. Ladies love the

magic tricks. Think of a card.”

Chevie rolled her eyes. “Oh, please.”
“No, seriously now, mademoiselle. Picture
a card. Visualize it, as you Americans are
fond of saying.”

Chevie couldn’t help it. The Queen of
Hearts popped into her mind. It had been
her father’s favorite bar on the Pacific Coast
Highway.

Garrick clicked his fingers. “I have it. You
were picturing the Ace of Spades. The card
that signifies imminent and painful death.”

“No, I wasn’t,” argued Chevie.

248/571
Garrick twirled his butter knife. “You are

now,” he said.

It was an exchange straight out of a penny
dreadful, Garrick knew; but he had grown up
on stage and had melodrama in his blood.

The food arrived, and Garrick tucked in
laughing as he ate,
with obvious delight,
plucking morsels
from several different
plates—he ate sausages dipped in syrup and
potato cakes smothered in hot chocolate. He
was like a child at a party.

“There is no dirt, not a speck of grit,” he
declared. “The odors are uniformly pleasant,
and what is supposed to be hot is hot.”

Chevie watched the magician closely, men-
tally going over every detail of his face and
mannerisms in order to commit it all to
memory.

Middle-aged. Maybe early forties, hard to
tell. Pale complexion. Teeth seem a little
long. Yellowed. Dark eyes. Blue, maybe,
deep-set, with a bulbous brow. Black hair

249/571
starting to gray. Long and straight. Slim
build, but wiry. Nothing obviously threaten-
ing about him. This guy would never get the
part of a Victorian villain in a movie about
himself.

Surely my chance will come,

thought
Chevie, but every time she was on the verge
of launching herself at the magician, he saw
the intent in her face. It was almost as if Gar-
rick could read her thoughts.

“You are wondering if I can read your
thoughts,” said Garrick suddenly, waving a
nub of sausage at her. “I confess that I can-
not, but I do have a certain expertise in the
science of movement, what you might term
kinesics or body language. Your violent in-
tentions are as clear to me as the Times’s
banner headline.”

Chevie glared at him. “Yeah? What’s my

face telling you now?”

“The FBI often employ the term accept-
able collateral damage,” continued Garrick

250/571
calmly. “If we were to engage here, I can
guarantee that at least half a dozen members
of the public would be killed; the number
could be as high as ten, if you really incon-
venienced me. Felix assures me that you
have a certain competence in the martial
arts, but you are unarmed, and I have three
pistols and a blade on my person. Do you
think the Bureau would reward you for pro-
voking me in a restaurant?”

Garrick was right, and Chevie knew it. She
could not afford to be aggressive in such a
public area.

Again, Garrick read her face. “You have
come to the right decision, Agent. After all,
these are real people all around us. People
with families and loved ones.”

Garrick flinched as if struck, as his own
words connected him to a memory of
Smart’s.

“Loved ones,” he repeated, pulling the
Timekey from under his shirt. “Felix knew

251/571
that his father had taken a female compan-
ion somewhere in London after his mother
died. Charles Smart never revealed whom,
and Felix presumed that once his father dis-
appeared into the past that was the end of
that. But I have spied on many a lovesick
mark, and passion will drive a man to almost
any lengths.” Garrick paused, flipping the
Timekey with his agile fingers. “His father
built a second pod in London, but Felix could
never track it down. And it occurs to me, as a
student of human foibles and failings, what
better reason to construct a backup pod than
to sneak back to this century and visit a
secret flame?” Garrick activated the key’s
small screen and clicked though the menus
until he came to a trip log.

“We have several

jumps from Bedford
Square, as one would expect, the last one in
the early 1980s. And that should be the end
of it—but, no, I have some coordinates here.
More than a dozen more jaunts logged to and

252/571
from the same spot. Smart, you amorous old
dog. Whoever this woman is, you could not
stay away.”

Garrick stuffed the Timekey inside his
shirt. “Riley, my son. We have found our way
home.”

Riley did not speak, but his eyes spoke for

him: I am not your son.

Surprising that Garrick could not decipher

that.

Garrick used the GPS on Smart’s phone to
navigate to the coordinates on the Timekey.
Felix Smart’s memories acted like a living tu-
torial. Whenever Garrick arrived at a new
screen, he simply concentrated for a moment
until its workings came to him.

They walked from the Wolseley side by
side, like family, past the Ritz and onto Pic-
cadilly. Garrick enjoyed the early morning
sun on his face, while Chevie’s strides were
stiff with tension and Riley walked as though
dazed with exhaustion;
in reality he was

253/571
overplaying his fatigue so that Garrick would
not press him into conversation, and he
could steal a moment to think.

I wish there was some way to signal to
Agent Savano, he thought. We can only es-
cape by paddling in the same direction.

He tried to catch Chevie’s eye, but she was

lost in her own thoughts.

Surely there is an alert out for Garrick at
this point, Chevie was thinking. Maybe he
will be recognized.

It was doubtful, as Garrick no longer
looked like Agent Orange. The only people
who had Garrick’s true description were
walking beside him, and it seemed as though
Riley had chosen which side he was on. And
she would not have held the boy’s choice
against him had it not been for the murder of
her colleague.

The city center was becoming busy as
shops opened for business. In spite of the
congestion fee,
soon

streets were

the

254/571
jammed bumper to bumper with vehicles.
The day was shaping up nicely, clear silver
skies that would soon turn blue, and a brisk
breeze that could stir even the most jaded
time traveler. The unlikely trio strolled to-
gether
through Mayfair, Chevie hoping
against hope that somehow the Bureau had
tracked them and there was a sniper drawing
a bead on Garrick’s crown even as they
walked.

Wishful thinking. And, even if somebody
does shoot this Garrick creature, it might
not even harm him. It could just make him
angry. Who knows what this guy is capable
of?

Chevie told herself not to give up. One of
Cord Vallicose’s maxims was that there was
always an opportunity waiting to be noticed;
an agent had to be ready when it presented
itself.

Whatever it takes to stay out of the past,

she thought. I am not going into the past.

255/571
But Chevie’s subconscious knew, even if
her conscious mind didn’t yet realize it, that
she would hop, skip, and jump into the past
whistling “The Star-Spangled Banner” if it
meant getting away
lunatic
magician.

from this

They arrived at

the coordinates pro-
grammed into the Timekey without any
sniper fire or indeed incident of any kind.
Garrick held his two hostages tightly by their
necks, long nails digging into their collars.

“Do you know, Agent Savano,” he said
conversationally, “that I could kill you now
with any one of these fingers?” To demon-
strate which fingers, he drummed them in a
creepy fashion on Chevie’s flesh. “One of my
trade secrets is that for the last ten years I
have been coating my nails with furniture
lacquer. They are hard as steel and sharper
than a barber’s cutthroat. I can slit any pack-
age with my thumbnail and explore its con-
tents behind my back for my famous second-

256/571
sight trick. I have never revealed that to a liv-
ing soul, but something about you makes a
person want to unburden.”

Chevie did not appreciate being told a ma-
gician’s secrets; it made her think that she
might not live much longer.

Riley gazed down the length of the street.
“Are we here, master? Is this the way home?”
They had arrived at Half Moon Street, and
it looked just like the movies said a Mayfair
street should look in the summer, with a row
of fine old five-story buildings that had been
converted into small businesses with a few
cafés and pubs. The street was still quiet at
this time of the morning, and the sidewalk
was barricaded by stacks of cardboard and
trash that had yet to be collected by the
garbage truck. An old lady in boots was hos-
ing the night’s detritus from the entrance to
an antiques shop.

“Now, where would be a good place to pick

up antiques?” wondered Garrick.

257/571
In the past, thought Chevie, and she was

suddenly afraid for the old lady.

Chevie felt Garrick’s grip loosen slightly as
his fingers seemed to grow a little shorter.
She glanced up and saw that Garrick was
hunched now. He spasmed as though racked
by a silent fit of coughing. With every retch,
his physical self altered until he resembled
Felix Smart once more.

That was my chance, Chevie realized, and I

stood here gawking.

Garrick’s fingers tightened on her shoulder
once more. “You should have had a go there,
Agent,” he said, sweat pasted across his
brow. “Those transmogrifications take it out
of a fellow, yes, they do.”

“Excuse me, ma’am,” he called to the eld-

erly lady. “Perhaps you can assist me?”

The lady did not look up from her labor. “I
can assist you at nine. Shop opens at nine.
Most of the stuff I have is really old, so an-
other thirty minutes won’t matter.”

258/571
Garrick tapped her window. “I see you spe-

cialize in Victorian.”

The lady released the hose trigger and
swiveled her head upward to take in Garrick.
“Yes, and I will still specialize in Victorian
at nine.” There was probably more British
sarcasm in the tank, but the lady changed
her
adopted face
registered.

tune once Garrick’s

“Wait a moment. Don’t I . . .” And her eyes
drifted as though trying to locate an elusive
memory. “Your face. It seems so familiar.”

Garrick’s smile seemed utterly genuine.

“People tell me I look like my father.”

The lady dropped the hose. “Oh . . . Oh,

my. Felix? You are Felix, aren’t you?”

“Yes, I am Felix,” said Garrick, making it

sound like he was the new messiah.

“Oh, goodness. Oh, dear me. Felix.” The
woman’s face was transformed utterly. Gone
was the cynical tradeswoman of moments
before, and in her place stood a wide-eyed,

259/571
flustered lady. “Your father said you might
find me someday.”

Garrick placed a hand on her shoulder.

“And here I am.”

“Yes, you are here. Plain as day.” She drew
a worried breath. “Oh, are you hungry? You
must be thirsty? And your young friends?
They’re probably hungry and thirsty.”

Garrick shrugged as if to say, We are ter-
ribly hungry and thirsty, but I am too polite
to mention it.

“You must come in. Please come inside.”
The lady fished a door key on a chain from
under her blouse, then jabbed it into an-
tiques shop’s front door.

“But, madam,” said Garrick, smiling, “it is

not yet nine o’clock.”

The lady knew very well she was being
ribbed. “Oh, it’s always a question of time
with you Smart boys.” She offered a gloved
hand. “I’m Victoria. Your father’s . . . friend.”

260/571
For a moment Garrick’s eyes glittered in

Felix Smart’s face.

“I believe we have come to the right place,”

he said, bending to kiss Victoria’s cheek.

Not only was the lady named Victoria, but
the antiques shop was called Victoriana.
When she led them through the doorway and
into the shop itself, Riley could not stifle a
gasp, for it was like stepping back into his
own time, without the usual stink of animals,
sewage, and nearby death, which in truth he
did not hanker for, in spite of his current
circumstances.

I have always lived in the shadow of death,
he thought, feeling his heart pump like a
steam piston as he spied a set of brass and-
irons that were almost identical to the ones
flanking his and Garrick’s own hearth in
Holborn.

And somewhere in this place is the gate-

way back.

261/571
Unlike his master, Riley was in no hurry to
return to the nineteenth century’s Great
Oven. He had experienced wonders during
the night and also freedom, however fleet-
ingly, and now had a taste for it.

I could exist here in this future of marvels,

if only Garrick would release me.

But Riley knew that there was only one

way his master would ever release him.

The lady led them through a showroom
that glowed softly with the amber warmth of
sunlight on wood. Her small shop was
presented as a Victorian drawing room, but
in this drawing room everything was for sale.
There were discreet tags on each item but no
prices. If you asked for the price, you were
halfway to buying.

What Chevie knew about antiques could
be written on the back of a postcard. The old-
est thing she’d ever owned was a seventies
surfboard that had once belonged to world
champion “PT” Townend, but even she could

262/571
tell that the stuff in this room was expensive.
The pieces hummed with history, and it was
impossible to look at the bureau without
wondering who might have once written let-
ters on its folding lid.

“What a wonderful emporium,” said Gar-
rick, all charm and grace. “The pieces are in
remarkable condition.” He stroked the leath-
er cushion of an angular recliner that was
less ornate than the other chairs. “Is this a
William Morris, Victoria?”

Victoria retraced her steps to the chair,
picking up the cushion and hugging it close
as though it were a baby.

“Yes. One of the very first. This was the

last thing your father sent to me.”

“It seems old,” said Garrick, tracing the
grain with his finger. “Shouldn’t it be almost
new?”

Victoria replaced the cushion. “Ah, you
see, therein lies your father’s genius. The ex-
tra power needed to transport this chair

263/571
from the nineteenth century would be
enormous, so Charles simply bought a field
in Greenwich, which he knew would still be
under grass, and he buried items there.
When he comes to call, he brings a little label
with some directions. It is his version of
roses and champagne.” She flicked the
chair’s label with a finger. “I still use the la-
bels, as you can see. Anything to keep me go-
ing until his next visit.”

“You two have something special,” said
Garrick, and to Chevie’s trained ear the as-
sassin sounded sincere, even touched.

Victoria stroked his face, fingers rasping
against stubble. “Yes, we do, and the next
time he comes I’m going back with him for
good. I’ve been taking the bisphosphonates
for six months now. We’re to be married.”
Victoria’s eyes were bright with excitement,
but she was a decent woman and realized the
discomfort her news would cause her be-
loved’s son. “I know this isn’t easy for you,

264/571
Felix, to find out like this. But your father
was so lonely—he missed you. He kept an eye
on you, but it was too dangerous to make
contact. Charles said that if you ever found
me it might be because you were ready to un-
derstand why he left. He hoped that would
be the case.”

Victoria led them through a door at the
back of the shop floor and into open-plan
apartment with an ultramodern minimalist
kitchen and living room. Victoria filled the
kettle, then sat them at an oblong table that
basked in the latticed rays of sunshine pour-
ing through the blinds. Pictures of Charles
Smart and Victoria lined the walls. Appar-
ently they had been having fun all over Lon-
don for quite a few years.

Victoria sat at the head of the table and
composed herself. Chevie guessed she was
about seventy—a petite, striking lady with
fine, porcelain features and eyes that were so
wide and green they were almost feline. Her

265/571
hair was mostly dark, but streaked with
blond and gray. She wore a period bustier
getup that would not have been out of place
in a BBC costume drama.

“So, everyone,” she said, “are we all in the

loop? The time loop?”

Garrick was getting anxious. His eyes dar-
ted around the room, and his brow glistened.
Riley couldn’t understand it; there was no
danger here. Garrick could face down a room
full of armed Tartars without a drop of sweat
sliding down his beak of a nose. Now here he
was, suddenly agitated in the company of
one old lady. What was wrong?

Garrick answered for the group. “Yes, yes.
We are all aware of Charles Smart’s . . . that
is, my father’s experiments and discoveries.
We have reason to believe that he is in seri-
ous danger. We need to travel back in time to
assist him. So, if there is a WARP pod here,
we need to use it.”

266/571
Victoria pursed her lips. “Hmm. Charles
hoped you would find me so we could get to
know each other, but he was also afraid that
you might come for the secrets of the pod.
He said that the FBI were a sneaky bunch,
and I should watch out.”

“I see,” said Garrick, teeth gritted. “But
Charles was my . . . father. I am his boy,
surely you don’t need to watch out for me?”

Victoria wagged two index fingers at him
like six-shooters. “Ah, you may be his boy,
but Charles said that you were potentially
the worst of the bunch. You were more inter-
ested in the government contracts than the
science. You pushed things forward before
they were ready. Your father told me all
about the wormhole mutations. He said time
travel can give you cancer without
the
bisphosphonates.”

Charles Smart’s monkey arm and yellow
head.

through Chevie’s

blood
Mutations.

flashed

267/571
“But Father is in trouble. We need to save

him.”

Victoria’s eyes were shrewd. You don’t
keep a business open in central London
without being seriously smart. “How do you
know Charles is in trouble? He said you can’t
find him. None of the other pods go to where
he is, and you can’t just build another pod.
Not without Charles.”

Garrick frowned and shuddered as if his

system were under attack from a virus.

“What about this?” he said, plonking a
large handgun on the table. “Now, why don’t
you tell me where the pod is?”

Victoria pounded the table with delicate
hands while the kettle whistled behind her.
“What kind of son are you?” she demanded.
“You broke your father’s heart, and now
you’re threatening the woman he loves. You
villain.”

268/571
Garrick covered his eyes, uncomfortable in
the light. “Yes, villain, I accept it. Now,
where is the pod?”

Victoria rose to her feet. “Never, Judas.

You shall get nothing from me.”

“Then I shall kill you,” said Garrick. “As I

killed your beloved Charles.”

Victoria paled, then staggered back a step.
“You are not Felix Smart!” she declared.
“No, madam,” declared Garrick. “I am not.

Felix Smart has gone the way of his father.”

Victoria made a noise close to an animal
howl and pounced on Garrick with surpris-
ing speed.

said Garrick,

“Stupid woman!”

and
slapped her hard on the side of her head. The
blow felled them both, for no sooner had
Victoria crumpled to the ground than Gar-
rick himself bent double and threw up across
the table.

Chevie saw a chance and twisted in her
chair, grabbing the back of it and swinging

269/571
the entire thing at Garrick’s head with all the
aggression and force she had learned work-
ing out in federal gyms.

Garrick managed to get a forearm up, but
the chair smashed across his arm and head,
driving him to the ground. The assassin went
down, blood smearing the floor as he slid on
his forehead.

Chevie did not relax for one second. Gar-
rick might be down but he was far from out,
and there was his side-swapping, murdering
sidekick Riley to worry about.

“Stay out of this, kid!” she warned Riley,

who was moving in her direction.

“No, Chevie,”

said Riley.

“You don’t

understand.”

There was no time for understanding now.
This situation was all about Garrick and how
to neutralize him. There would be plenty of
time for understanding stuff later.

Garrick himself reinforced her decision
when he rolled over and glanced up at her,

through a sheet of blood and gasped,
Smart’s voice: “Chevie. The Timekey.”

270/571
in

“Felix? Is that you?”
He held out the key. “Take it.”
Chevie reached out, grabbing the lanyard.
She slung it around her neck, but before she
could retreat entirely, Smart became Garrick
once more.

“No. That is mine,” he growled, grabbing
the key and yanking it toward him. For a thin
man he had a lot of strength, and Chevie was
off balance and powerless to stop her tumble.
Riley saved her, tipping the entire table
over on his master. The boy,
too, was
stronger than he seemed. The table’s edge
landed squarely on Garrick’s shin, splinter-
ing the bone.

“What?” said Chevie. “You’re on my side

now?”

Riley held up his left hand and Chevie saw

blood congealed on the thumb.

271/571
“Always,” he said, and Chevie understood.
The boy was a magician’s apprentice. He had
pierced his own flesh, not Duff’s, risking
Garrick’s wrath to save the agent’s life.

“We should go, Agent,” said Riley urgently.
then rubbed her
“Yeah,” said Chevie,
throat and coughed. “Yep. Going would be
good.”

She tucked the Timekey inside her blouse

and ushered Riley toward the door.

Shots punched through the table and into
the ceiling. Garrick was still fighting, in spite
of the terrible agony he must be feeling.

“We should have killed him,” said Riley.

“Killing the devil cannot be a sin.”

Until quite recently, Chevie would have
scoffed at this statement for its superstition
and dubious morality, but now she was com-
ing around to the idea.

“Later,” she said. “Later.”
They were close to the stairway when half
a dozen shots ripped into the bannisters,

272/571
showering them with wood chips. Chevie
grabbed Riley’s collar and shunted him be-
hind the sofa.

Riley fell and saw between the sofa legs
that the lady was recovering her senses and
had rolled onto her elbows. “Victoria is
alive.”

“Good. I doubt Garrick will spend a bullet
on her when we are the ones breaking his
bones with furniture.”

The broken bone did not hurt Garrick as
much as it would a normal person. The
quantum magician instructed his nerve end-
ings to hush their messages to the brain,
which took a little of the white-hot pain from
his injury. He was perfectly aware of the
damage done to his limb. His internals were
clearer to him than the calcium tungstate
photographs those Frost brothers had used
to see inside mice. He was suffering from a
compound fracture of the tibia inflicted by
his own boy. He tried to heal himself, but the

273/571
process was infuriatingly slow, and he could
feel it draining his energies.

Garrick felt the injustice like rising nausea.
“Riley!” he called. “Riley.”
Riley ducked low behind the sofa as if the

word could harm him.

“We need to be leaving,” he whispered to
Chevie. “You’re the expert in these matters,
being some form of agent. Lead on, I says.”

Chevie did not feel like much of an expert.
I am only seventeen, she wanted to say. I
shouldn’t even be here. I am not even a legit-
imate FBI agent, and my program was can-
celed. But she didn’t voice these thoughts.
Agent Chevron Savano considered herself a
teenage professional, and Riley was depend-
ing on her.

She wiggled past him, making sure to keep

her head down.

“We need to help Victoria.”
“Draw Garrick away and that will save her
life—he don’t care a fig for her. It’s us and

274/571
that Timekey he wants. Garrick will follow
his target every time.”

Riley was right.
“Okay. We go out the back way.”
There had to be a yard, or a doorway. If
she could make it to a phone, then Garrick
was dead and buried, no matter how many
faces he had.

Then I am going to home to California,
where the sun shines and there are no
death-dealing magicians from the past.

Garrick took a few more shots, but he was
firing blind, just trying to corral them to the
kitchen.

Chevie squatted on her hunkers, pulling

Riley’s face close to hers.

“Here’s the plan. We run to those back

stairs and see where they go.”

“Is that a plan?” asked Riley. “Strikes me
more as a notion, or a smidge of an idea.
Plans have stages and steps. Jinky twists and
the likes.”

275/571
“Zip it, chatterbox. You ready for the

plan?”

Riley nodded.
“Right. After three. Run like the devil him-

self is on your tail.”

Which in a way he was.
Chevie counted to three, then hurled a
handy vase toward the wall, where she
thought it would smash and distract Garrick.

She thought wrong.
Garrick shot the vase out of the air as it
twirled, being a practiced marksman from
his years in Her Majesty’s army.

Perhaps this is not a brilliant plan, thought
Chevie, but it was too late, as Riley had
already bolted for the stairs. Luckily the boy
kept himself low and out of Garrick’s sight
line.

He won’t have a restricted sight line for
long, she realized. Once he gets that leg free,
we’re as good as dead.

276/571
Chevie raced after Riley, feeling the gun-
fire impact the wall over her head before she
heard it. They ran pell-mell down the stairs,
barely managing to stay upright in their
haste. The staircase was narrow and dim, but
with familiar-looking thick power lines run-
ning along the skirting board.

No, thought Chevie. No, no, no.
The steps led down to a small basement.
Chevie and Riley tumbled into the room, in-
stinctively searching for an exit. There was
none. The only natural
light came from
barred windows at pavement level. The legs
of shadowy pedestrians threw stick shadows
on the wall.

Chevie actually stamped her foot. “No way

out! I don’t believe it.”

Riley patted the walls with his palms, hop-

ing for a secret passage.

Chevie cast around the room, searching for
something, anything, that could be of use to
them.

277/571
Riley pointed to a blocky shape under a
tarp in the corner. “I would wager that if we
remove that waterproof sheet . . .”

“I know what it is!” shouted Chevie. “I

know. But . . .”

Riley glanced anxiously toward the stair-
well. Victorian oaths and grumbling echoed
from above.

“My master is not happy.”
“I gathered that.”
“He is coming.”
Chevie paced a little. “Yeah, I know. Death

the magician is coming.”

“Should I zip it?”
“Yeah . . . No.” Chevie balled her fists in
frustration. “I’m not even a proper agent,
kid. I was supposed to keep an ear open in
the lunch hall, that’s it. No one ever said any-
thing about time travel.” Chevie slapped her
head. “This is insane. I can’t do this.”

278/571
A shot smashed into the bannisters, then
there was a guttural roar—no words, simply
emotion.

Riley twisted a splintered banister free,

brandishing it like a stake.

“Chevie. I’ll guard the stairs, perhaps even
get a lucky blow in. You must activate the
machinery.”

Chevie knew the boy was right. She
dragged the tarp, revealing the WARP pod
underneath.

From upstairs: “Riley! You broke my leg.”
“That ain’t a happy man,” said Riley,

pointing with his makeshift stake.

He grabbed another corner of the tarp
with his free hand, and soon the pod was un-
covered. “Make it work, Chevie.”

Riley decided to get the show on the road
himself and began pounding buttons on the
computers rigged up to the pod.

“No, no,” said Chevie, elbowing him out of
the way. “You need this.” She took the

279/571
Timekey from around her neck and slotted it
into a computer drive on a console that was
smaller than the one in Bedford Square.

Perhaps it will be too complicated, she
half hoped. Maybe I won’t be able to fire it
up.

No such luck: as soon as the Timekey
clicked into place, the pod shuddered into
life, expelling steam from various vents, set-
ting the power lines humming. Damper bar-
rels vibrated on the floor.

This one is smaller, realized Chevie. Ver-

sion 2.0.

The Timekey activated a tiny screen with
yellow graphics that wobbled every few
seconds. The screen crackled.

That sounds like wires burning.
No. Don’t think about that. It’s just warm-
ing up. To confirm this thought, a little car-
toon bird appeared on the screen. The bird
was without feathers and shivering. A speech

280/571
bubble popped out of his beak: I’m just
warming up.

Chevie gave Riley a thumbs-up. “All sys-

tems go. No problems.”

Slowly the bird sprouted feathers.

It
seemed as though Charles Smart had had a
sense of humor.

From the top of the stairway there came a
meaty slap as something lurched across the
entrance.

“Riley,” cried a rasping voice that seemed
full of pain, both emotional and physical.
“My son, no longer. My partner, never
again.”

Four shots blasted chunks from the brick
walls of the basement. A series of thumps
and curses followed. If Garrick was sliding
down the stairs, he would soon be able to
take a clear shot at them.

“Get your old battered self down here,”
called Riley, attempting bravado. “I have a
nice sharp gift waiting for yer organs.”

281/571
Garrick fired another shot in reply and

fragments of brick stung Chevie’s cheek.

This is like Star Wars, thought Chevie.
We’re the rebel base and Garrick is the Death
Star.

The bird sprouted more feathers.
“Chevron? Agent, hurry,”

said Riley

urgently.

“Coming.” Chevie fought the urge to slap

the alt-tech computer. “Get into the pod.”

“Inside?”
“Yes. Get in.”
Riley did not like the idea of backing him-
self into an even smaller corner, but the only
way out was in.

Legs flashed by on the pavement outside.
More thumps on the stairs. Chevie thought
she saw a scrabbling hand out of the corner
of her eye.

“Riley! You cannot escape me.”
In the pod, Riley sat on the bench, hands

clenched on his knees.

282/571
The bird was fully clothed in feathers now,
and the speech bubble said: i am all warmed
up.

Then the bird disappeared, and a menu

began loading on screen.

“Yeah, yeah, what are my options?”
shouted Chevie, as though that could speed
up the ancient computer.

There were two choices: systems check or

activate wormhole.

She selected activate wormhole and, after
a few fizzling seconds of nothing much, the
familiar corona of orange light bloomed in-
side the pod.

“No!” came a voice from the stairs. “I for-

bid it!”

Two shots plowed into the concrete floor,

throwing up sharp chips.

Almost in his sights, thought Chevie, and
she realized that she would have to run the
gauntlet to reach the pod herself. For two
seconds Garrick would have a clear shot.

283/571
The longer I wait, the sooner he shoots

me.

Chevie was prompted to remove her key,
and the bird reappeared with a countdown in
his speech bubble. Thirty seconds. Chevie
had half a minute to get herself into the past.

Thirty seconds. No time to think.
“Run!” called Riley from inside the orange

glow. “Run!”

She did, diving the last few feet into the
belly of the pod. She noticed immediately
how cold it was in there. Freezing. Her
breath burst from her in clouds, then crystal-
lized immediately. There was frost on Riley’s
hair and brows.

“When do we go?” he asked. “Why are we

still here?”

Chevie did not answer, just turned to face
the pod’s doorway. Through the orange light
she could see Garrick dragging himself down
the stairs like a corpse that refused to lie
down and die.

284/571
“Infernal time machine!” declared Riley,

striking the bench. “Let us away!”

Garrick’s head was cocked and his skeletal
face pointed their way. From the depths of
sunken sockets, his eyes were locked on
them, beaming malevolence into the pod.

Chevie stood and shouted at the top of her
lungs, “Wake up, Victoria! Wake up and
run.”

Garrick raised his weapon to fire but
thought better of it, unwilling to risk dam-
aging the WARP pod. Instead he continued
his grim crawl.

The pod began to beep. The complicated
series of whoops and whistles was matched
by small lights on the fuselage.

Chevie suddenly remembered something
from Orange’s time lecture. The tests were
pretty successful, he’d said. There was a
small number of aberrations, usually on the
return trip, but less than one percent, so ac-
ceptable in a scientific sense.

285/571
Oh, my God, she thought. We haven’t been
taking bisphosphonates. I don’t even know
what those are. We could come out the other
end with monkey parts or dinosaur heads.

But she didn’t say anything to Riley, be-
cause her voice had been snatched away by
the orange light. She didn’t lay a warning
hand on his shoulder either, because her
hand was gone, whisked away as though she
were made of sand.

I am sand in the wind, she thought.
As am I, replied Riley in her mind.
The last thing to go was their sight, so they
completed their dematerialization watching
Garrick reach the bottom step and begin his
lurching hop across the floor.

He’s going to make it, thought Chevie.

We’re not rid of Albert Garrick yet.

She would have closed her eyes and bowed
her head, but her head was gone, and now so
were her eyes.

The Battering Rams

HALF MOON STREET. LONDON. 1898

Riley felt himself go and initially presumed
that the going would be similar to his previ-
ous journey through the tunnel of time. It
was not.

In fact, this trip was the opposite of his
first in almost every way. At the most basic
level, he was going back as opposed to travel-
ing forward. Just as a physical
journey
changed according to a person’s direction, so
too did a quantum one. Where he had felt
propelled, now he felt somehow suctioned
into his own past life.

287/571
Riley had heard of primal recollection oc-
curring when a subject was under hypnot-
ism—indeed, Garrick had mesmerized him
on occasion—but Riley could never remem-
ber anything that had happened while in the
trances, probably because Garrick had
bolstered his own mesmeric talents by swab-
bing the boy’s upper lip with an ether-soaked
sponge.

But now vignettes from his life played out
before him, projected on the shifting surface
of the wormhole.

The ginger-haired boy. He is Tom. Ginger
Tom, Ma always called him. We are half
brothers. I remember now.

Teenage Tom looked down on little Riley,
holding out a hand. Come on, brother. I have
a penny for lemonade. We will share a
bottle.

Tom ran down a beach, and Riley felt him-
self trot after,
following footsteps in the
sand. The brothers ran toward a pier, and

288/571
Riley could hear the plinky-plonk music of a
barrel organ.

Brighton. I live here.
Tom turned his head and called over his
shoulder. Ma loves ’er bulls-eyes. Shall we
bring her a twist?

The scene flickered, and now little Riley
was a baby in the arms of a lady, gazing up
into her kind, soft face. His mother wore a
plain blouse and her hair in braids.

Tom is named for his sadly departed Da,
and will be a heartbreaker like him, she
said, tickling his chin. But you, my little shil-
lelagh, will carry the name Riley, like your
dad. And your Christian name shall be the
name of my family, the proudest clan in
County Wexford.

Riley would have cried if he could. She was
Irish. I remember now, he thought, and, The
name? What is my name?

But then the picture changed, and Riley
saw his father looming large and warm above

289/571
him. The similarity of his face to Riley’s own
was instantly apparent.

This is a secret, his father was saying. I am
only showing this to you because you can’t
speak yet and you won’t remember. He
opened up his hand, and lying on the palm
was a golden shield with letters embossed on
its face. And the letters were F, B, I.

Those letters mean I have to protect
people. One person in particular. Funny
little Mr. Carter. Look, he’s outside waiting.
The infant Riley followed his father’s
pointing finger to see a man pacing beyond
their front door. His legs flashed past, and all
Riley could make out were shining black
ankle boots and a horseshoe signet ring.

Riley’s father shook his head. This guy is a
pain. A royal pain. He’s trying to weasel out
of testifying after all this time. But no mat-
ter how much of a jerk he is, I have to thank
him, because, without Carter, I wouldn’t
have you, or your mother, or your half

290/571
brother, Tom, for that matter. Without him,
and this gadget.

The gadget Riley’s father referred to was a
Timekey slung around his neck on a thick
cord.

With this, I can take you to see my home.
We will all go one day. It’s a new world, my
dear son.
Another scene change, and this time Tom
was beside him in the bed they shared,
whispering.

“I’m off for a gentlemen’s engagement on
the pier,” he said. “Just between us, eh, Riley
boy? No need for Mater and Pater to be in-
formed. On my return there will be barley
sugar for you, and perhaps tales of a kiss
from pretty Annie Birch.”

Riley watched his half brother slip through
an open window and heard an oof and slap
of feet as Tom landed on the street below.

Moments later the toddler Riley felt a
presence in the room and a low-tide stink of

291/571
rotten fish wafted through the window. A
man stood in the shadows, a blade jutting
from his fist. It seemed to the child that the
man had simply appeared on the spot.
“Magic,” he said. “Magic man.”

The man moved so quickly that the shad-
lamp seemed to lag

ow cast by the hall
behind.

It was Garrick, come on business, and he
leaned over the small boy, knife hand raised
overhead, on the point of ensuring his si-
lence, when Riley spoke again.

“Magic man.”
Something strange happened to Garrick’s
face: it warred with itself until a smile broke
out. Not a happy smile; rather a momentary
relaxing of his features.

“Magic man,” he said, repeating the tod-
dler’s mumbled words. “Once upon a time . .
.”

On hearing this phrase, young Riley
burbled happily, certain that a story was

292/571
forthcoming. And this innocent mumbling
saved his life,
for Garrick found himself
judged a magical storyteller by this little fella
and decided not to do away with him until
after the main job.

When Garrick returned barely a minute
later with blood on his blade, the boy Riley
still expected a bedtime story and met him
with a broad grin of baby teeth.

“Story, magic man,” demanded the three-

year-old. “Story.”

Garrick sighed,

shook his head, and
blinked at
the fanciful notion that had
popped unbidden into his mind. Then, with
only a moment’s hesitation, he tucked the
boy inside his greatcoat and left through the
same window he had come in by.
In the wormhole, Riley would have cried if
he could.

Garrick murdered my parents and stole
me away, he realized, and knew it was true.
And for all these past years he has been

293/571
swearing that he saved me from a bunch of
street cannibals in the alleys of Bethnal
Green. But it was he who orphaned me.

Riley allowed this statement to repeat it-
self in his consciousness, in case he forgot
when he woke.

Garrick killed my parents. Garrick killed

my parents.

Riley did not want to forget, because re-

membering this fact would steel his resolve.

Their

For one day soon I must bring Albert Gar-
rick to justice or be snuffed out me own self.
journey through the wormhole
ended gradually as spacetime dissipated
around them like cloudy fragments of a deep
and detailed dream. Riley and Chevron
Savano found themselves in a Victorian Lon-
don basement, both smiling broadly in the
grip of what Charles Smart called the Zen
Ten.

294/571
“Garrick did in my whole family, except
my brother, Tom,” said Riley. “I am truly an
orphan.”

Chevie hugged the boy. “Hey, so am I. Two

orphans, together against the world.”

“And my father was a policeman, like you.”
“Like me?”
“An agent in the FBI. He showed me his

shining badge and his Timekey.”

“I saw that vision too, somehow,” said
Chevie. “Your dad was a Fed. How did that
happen?” This, she decided, was an import-
ant detail that she would definitely come
back to when her mind was a little sharper.

“He was protecting someone who wore a

horseshoe ring,” continued Riley.

“Horseshoe ring,” repeated Chevie, a little
dopily, like a patient coming out of anesthet-
ic. “And neither of us is a monkey.”

The basement had the same shape as it
would in the future, differing only in the bare

295/571
walls and floor of compacted earth, with
brick pillars to support the rooms above.

Chevie stamped her foot and the ground
resounded with a hollow bong. “A metal
plate. We need that to land in one piece. This
plate is specially designed to act as a guide
for the wormhole, like a lightning rod.”

“I say we dismantle it,” said Riley, raising
his hand as though voting in the House of
Commons. “Perhaps Garrick will find his
hands growing out of his backside if he man-
ages to follow us.”

Chevie was trying to think beyond the time

fugue, and Riley’s joking was not helping.

“Stop with the cracks,” she said, giggling.
“We should check ourselves to make sure
nothing is out of place. Sober thinking now.”
“I am sober. You won’t let me drink, not

even beer.”

Chevie stepped from the plate. “We should
get out of here. Put some space between us

296/571
and Garrick. I need to get a gun. Do you
know anyone? Gun . . . bang bang?”
“Bang,” said Riley. “Bang bang.”
Chevie pulled Riley from the buried plat-
form and noticed a disk of light hovering in
the air, like a spinning silver dollar.

“Silver dollar,” she said conversationally,

pointing at the dwindling wormhole.

Riley nodded.
“Men with sacks,” he said, pointing at two
men who had entered the basement and
were stealing across the mud floor, holding
open the mouths of two flour sacks.

Chevie spotted a third man, emerging

from a corner, his mouth full of food.

“Not all of them. That one’s got a chicken

wing . . . and a blackjack.”

“I claim the chicken wing,” said Riley.
Chevie was still laughing when the sack

went over her head.

HALF MOON STREET. SOHO. LONDON. NOW

297/571
Garrick tumbled into the pod less than a
minute after his quarry disappeared and no
more than ten seconds before the entrance to
the quantum tunnel disappeared altogether.
Just before his dematerialization, the wo-
man, Victoria, had staggered down the stairs
and shot him in the good leg with a small-
caliber bullet from an almost dainty rifle,
and so focused was Garrick on the diminish-
ing wormhole that he forgot to smother his
nerve endings. The sudden hammer blow of
agony almost rendered him senseless, which
would have been a disaster inside the worm-
hole. A man needed his senses marshaled
and ready for duty inside the time tunnel.

The fault is mine, he thought, for allowing

that woman to live.

The last sounds he heard from the twenty-
first century before he disappeared were the
bitter curses of the old woman, damning him
to hell for a murdering scoundrel.

298/571
Garrick had an inkling that sparing Victor-
ia was not all his own doing. The ghost of
that Scot muck-snipe, Felix Sharp, was mak-
ing a nuisance of itself in Garrick’s own gray
matter. The photographs of Sharp’s father
lining the wall and the notion of harming
Victoria caused a swelling of phantom emo-
tions that had stayed Garrick’s hand twice
now.

No more, thought Albert Garrick. I will be

a dead man’s cat’s-paw no longer.

Once the orange energy transmogrified his
atoms, enveloping him in the sea of quantum
foam, Garrick felt a calm descend over him.

I am nothing but soul now. Immortal.
Contentment draped the magician, but
then he felt Riley’s fear trail ahead of him,
and it snapped Garrick back to himself. He
followed it to the mouth of the wormhole,
borne easily as a corpse in the Thames. As
the end of his journey neared, he gathered
his bodily parts,
reassembling himself,

299/571
healing his wounds and expelling wisps of
Felix Sharp’s willpower from his thoughts,
while retaining his multifarious knowledge.
This was a delicate maneuver and Garrick
felt that he had not been entirely successful,
but certainly he had expunged enough of the
Scotsman’s foibles that the notion of putting
an end to Agent Chevron Savano did not up-
set him in the slightest.

Killing that girl will cause me no grief
whatsoever, he thought, and with a cata-
strophic loss of energy his particles co-
alesced, subliming from gas to solid just as
Garrick wished them to, relying on his
muscle memory to rejuvenate his body.

My sinews and bones are young, but my

mind is full of wisdom.

His powers were not infinite, he knew.
There would be no more healings or trans-
formations for Albert Garrick, but he felt
young again, with a brain full of twenty-first-
century knowledge, which should be more

300/571
than sufficient to ensure that his life was a
long and comfortable one.

Garrick emerged from the wormhole

grinning . . .

HALF MOON STREET. LONDON. 1898

. . . to find himself in an empty dungeon.
Garrick’s grin shriveled, but his disappoint-
ment soon burned off like brandy from a
pudding.

I am home.
There was no doubt that he had returned
to his own time. Even below street level, as
he was, London’s signature blend of smells
penetrated the air. The combined excretions
of three million souls, and another million
beasts besides, created as foul a stench as
had ever been known by man. A stench that
was breathed in by all, from the queen in her
palace to the lunatics in their Broadmoor
cells. There was no escape from it.

301/571
Garrick inhaled deeply, inflating his lungs
with tainted air, and for the second time in
his life, gave thanks for London’s foul fog, as
it was known.

“I am home!” he shouted now to the ceil-

ing, and a savage glee filled his breast.

And home would feel Albert Garrick’s
presence soon enough. No matter that Riley
and Agent Savano were in the wind. Where
could they run to but the tenement rooker-
ies, and maybe catch a knifing on account of
their clean faces? It was true that Riley could
lead the bluebottles back to High Holborn
and the Orient, the foreclosed theater that
Garrick had purchased and turned into digs
for him and Riley; but it seemed more likely
that the lad would get himself and his pro-
tector right out of harm’s way and not call
any attention to either of them.

I will

track him easy as pie, Garrick
thought confidently. Riley is leaping in the
dark, whereas I know every shadow in this

302/571
city and every dagger monkey concealed
there. I will squeeze my sources and spread
the chink if need be, and before the morning
slop pails are flung, there will be two more
angels in heaven.

There were neither tenants nor squatters
in the house on Half Moon Street, though
Garrick could smell cooked chicken and
found evidence of someone keeping watch.
Cigarette ends and beer bottles. Waxed pa-
per and a makeshift toilet dug in a corner.

Someone has been keeping a sharp eye

here.

Albert Garrick did not like to be seen un-
less it was on the stage. He would have pre-
ferred to take some time to dismantle the
landing pad, but, with eyes on the house, he
decided to return when the heat was off. Gar-
rick skipped upstairs, checking the pockets
of his greatcoat for weapons. He was de-
lighted to find that the three FBI handguns

303/571
had made it through the wormhole with him,
one with laser sights attached.

These weapons alone will make my for-
tune, he thought. I shall engage a gunsmith
to tool up ruder versions, then it’s off to the
patent office. This time next year, I shall be
taking tea with the Vanderbilts in New York
City.

Garrick toted up his bullets and vowed to
stab contracts to death whenever possible in
the future to conserve these precious shells.

“Thirty bangs, and that’s my lot,” he

muttered.

The house on Half Moon Street was in
reasonable nick, but it was obvious from the
knee-high rising damp on the walls that this
place had been a dead lurk for quite some
time. Garrick slipped out the servants’ en-
trance at the rear and vaulted from the coal
bin to the yard wall. From there he leaped
nimbly to the alley, enjoying the shock of the
impact thrumming through his young bones.

304/571
All of his old twinges and weaknesses had
been subsumed by the wormhole.

Garrick ducked into a gateway and held
himself stock-still, to see if anyone was on
his coattails. When he was satisfied that he
was not being followed, he drew himself
erect and strolled around the corner, setting
his beak toward Piccadilly.

In a hundred years’ time, he thought, I
would not be able to escape so easily. There
will be DNA and fingerprinting
and
to mention cameras on
UVwanding, not
every corner and in outer space. But now, in
my time, once I am clear, I am gone, and
none can say different who did not witness it
with their own eyes.

The sun was shining here, as it would be in
a century’s time, though it had a harder job
busting through the smog. Garrick spotted a
boy wearing the familiar red coat of the
Shoe-black Brigade and hailed him.
“You! You there! What day is it?”

305/571
The boy shuffled across the street, not
bothering to avoid the puddles of seeping
sewage. As he came up, Garrick could see
that his jacket was tattered and closer to
dirty pink than red from a hundred rough
launderings.

He scowled at Garrick. “Well,

it ain’t
Christmas Day. And you ain’t no Mr.
Scrooge.”

On a normal morning Garrick would have
striped the cur’s cheek with his glove, but
today he was feeling charitable toward most
of England.

“Yes, well spotted, you educated scamp.
Now, fetch me a cab to Holborn. Hop to it
and there’s a shilling in it for you.”

The boy stretched out a hand. “Shilling in

advance, guv’nor.”

Garrick laughed. “In advance? You’ll be
getting your payment when I see you on the
backboard of my cab. As you so cleverly
pointed out, I ain’t no Ebenezer Scrooge.”

306/571
As the boy hurried off, whistling the
customary three-note cabbie summons, Gar-
rick realized that he had lost his wallet in the
wormhole.

No journey can be embarked on for free,
he thought. Not even one through time itself.
Another thought occurred to him: I hope
that boy can wait for payment; I don’t like to
commit murders this early in the day.

The morning was not progressing swim-
mingly for Riley and Chevron Savano. Just
moments before Garrick’s arrival in the base-
ment,
the time-traveling pair had been
swathed in rough burlap, torsos mummified
by bailing twine, and manhandled up a flight
of stairs.

By the time Chevie shook off the wormhole
bliss, she was on her back on polished floor-
boards with a knee wedged to her throat. She
tried to call out to Riley but could do nothing
more than croak through an obstructed
windpipe.

307/571
Apparently her croak was enough to
arouse the ire of her captors, as one rapped
her on the crown.

“Shush yer gob, miss,” he ordered. “We is
tired and hungry men and not in the mood
fer shenanigans.”

Chevie responded by heel-kicking her

captor in the knee.

How do you like those shenanigans? she
tried to say, but all that emerged was a series
of grunts.

Her stricken captor howled lustily, to the

great amusement of his comrades.

“Aw, Jeeves, did the maiden injure your
person?” said one, the chicken-wing man by
the smell of him.

“Shall I carry you to a hospital, or is you
too far gone?” said another, then spat noisily
to punctuate his derision.

The injured party recovered himself,
cracking Chevie once more on the head. “Do

308/571
we need ’em both? Malarkey might be satis-
fied with one to spill the beans.”

Inside his sack, Riley jerked at the men-

tion of the name Malarkey.

Otto Malarkey? The king of the Battering

Rams? How had they come into his sights?

As there was no knee on his throat, Riley
spoke to the men. “Which one of you
bludgers wants to tell Mr. Malarkey how you
murdered his kin?”

This question was met with a moment’s si-
lence, until Jeeves spoke. “Oh, ho! That’s a
fine bluff. A man would have to admire a lie
so brazen, would he not, Mr. Noble?”

Noble spoke. “Are you calling it, Jeeves?

’Cause I certainly ain’t.”

“It’s no bluff,” shouted Riley through the
sacking. “Trussing us up was insult enough,
but threatening our persons will land you in
the river by moonlight.”

Noble whistled. “Malarkey does favor the
river by moonlight for his bye-bye business.”

309/571
“There is a safe way to put the quiets on

these two,” said the third man.

Riley heard the pop of a cork from a bottle,
and a sharp odor cut through the dull musk
of burlap.

Ether! he thought. They’re putting us

under.

“Chevie!” he called. “Close yer gob.”
Jeeves cackled. “That’s wot I told her,” he

said.

Riley felt a dampness spread across his
face as the liquid anesthetic seeped through
the material. He held his breath until one of
the men jabbed him below the rib cage, for-
cing a sharp intake of etherized air.

I pray that Garrick is not already here or
we’ll never wake up, was the last thought he
had before his mind sank down like a stone
dropped into the midnight Thames.

Riley did survive to wake up, but before he
opened his eyes to whatever new dreadful-
ness awaited them, he spent a moment

reexperiencing
wormhole.

his

visions

310/571
from the

My family lived in Brighton, where Fath-
er was in the FBI. Mother was Irish and the
most beautiful lady I have ever seen. My
mate Ginger is in actuality my own half
brother, Tom. Ma and Pa were slaughtered
for money by Albert Garrick. But who
shelled out for the job? And was my own pa
from the future? How do these strands tie
together? Where is Tom now?

These were big bites of information to
swallow in one gulp. Everything he had
taken for gospel was a falsehood spooned in-
to his ear by Garrick.

Riley opened his eyes and was relieved to
find he could see. A second cause for relief
was the sight of Chevron Savano seated op-
posite him, tied to a sturdy chair, and they
were alone. Her bonds, though not expertly
fitted, were many and varied. Her captors
had used whatever hodgepodge of tethers

311/571
that lay handy, and therefore her torso was
bound with twine, her ankles with manacles,
and her forearms and wrists were done up
with twists of waxed paper. There was a
leather lanyard drawn tight around her neck,
securing it to the chair’s high back.

At least she still has the Timekey, he
thought, seeing the instrument’s outline
through Chevie’s shirt.

Riley was sure, without glancing down,

that he was similarly trussed.

“Chevie,” he whispered as loudly as he

dared. “Agent Savano. Stir yourself.”

Chevie opened her eyes, blinking away the

ether’s aftereffects.

“Riley! You’re okay.”
“I am well, Agent. The ether fog will lift

momentarily, trust me—I have experience.”

“Get out your pick,” said Chevie. “Free

yourself, then me.”

312/571
Riley wiggled his ankle. “My pick is gone.
Lost in the day’s exertions, or found by the
coves what lifted us.”

Chevie breathed heavily through her nose,
like an angry young bull. “Great. So now we
gotta sit here, trussed up like Thanksgiving
turkeys, and wait for this Malarkey character
to show himself. Who is that guy, anyway?”

“Otto Malarkey is a person of considerable
importance in the city. He is the mister-mas-
ter of the Battering Rams, a criminal gang of
bully boys who take a slice of everything
from thimble rigging to opium dens. Nobody
pulls a stroke in the Great Oven without first
tipping their cap to Mr. Otto Malarkey.”

“I understood about half of that,” admitted
Chevie. “So what you’re saying is that we’re
in trouble again.”

Riley looked around. They were im-
prisoned in a large storeroom, possibly un-
derground, judging by the chill. Sides of beef
lurked in the shadows, suspended by chains

313/571
from a ceiling beam, and wedges of light
shone through gaps in the ill-fitted floor-
boards overhead. The hubbub of both com-
merce and merriment filtered down from
above, punctuated by crashes and cries of
dispute. Various liquids slopped through the
boards, splashing on the mud floor. Riley
saw wine, beer, and the slow drip of blood.

“We ain’t swine food yet, Chevie. Now, tell

me a tale.”

Chevie started. “Tell you a tale? I gotta say

it, Riley. I was not expecting that request.”

Riley began to tense and relax his muscles.
“I am Garrick’s apprentice in murder and
magic. One leaf of that book is escapology.
But a get-out like this one is the veriest devil
of a job. I don’t know the knots and I ain’t
humping no tools. So tell me a tale while I
wriggle my way free.”

Chevie was stumped. “I don’t have any
stories, Riley. Books are not my thing. I like a
good movie, though.”

314/571
“Tell me something of yourself, then. Why

the strange tattoo?”

Chevie glanced at her right sleeve, which
covered the tattoo spanning her upper arm.
“The Chevron? Yeah, maybe that is a story.”

“This may be your last chance to tell it.”
“True enough.” She rattled her manacles
in frustration. “I cannot believe any of this is
happening. How can I be trapped in the
past?” The rattling produced nothing but
noise, so Chevie settled down. “Okay, you
want to hear about my tattoo?”

Riley’s face was slick with sweat, and his

body was rigid as a board. “Please.”

Chevie closed her eyes, trying to imagine
herself out of the past, into her own past in
the future. “My mom and dad grew up on the
Shawnee reservation in Oklahoma. They call
it trust land, these days. As soon as my dad
could afford a motorbike, my mom hopped
on the back and they took off across the
country. Got married in Vegas and settled in

315/571
California. I came along a while later, and
Dad told me that things were just about per-
fect for a couple of years, until Mom was
killed by a black bear over in La Verne.”
Chevie shook her head as if she still could
not accept this fact. “Can you believe that? A
Native American on a camping trip killed by
a bear. Dad never got over it. Oh, we were
happy enough, I guess. But he drank a lot.
‘When love dies,’ he told me, ‘there are no
survivors.’”

Chevie was silent for a moment, wishing
for the millionth time that she could remem-
ber her mother’s face.

“We had ten years together before his mo-
torcycle blew up on the Pacific Coast High-
way. Dad had a tattoo just like mine, a Chev-
ron symbol. It’s what I was named for.”

“You were named for a symbol? That is a

strange custom.”

Chevie scowled. “You asked for a tale,

remember?”

316/571
Riley twisted his own arm backward at the
elbow. “I apologize, Agent. Please continue.”
“My dad had the same tattoo. Same
shoulder. He told me that all the Savano men
back to the Shawnee wars have borne this
mark. William Savano fought
the Long
Knives with Tecumseh at Moraviantown. For
every officer he killed in battle, William
daubed a Chevron on his arm in blood, as
this was the sergeant’s symbol. He was a
fearsome warrior. So, in memory of William,
the Savanos have worn the symbol. I am the
last of the Savanos, so I bear the name and
the symbol. The first girl to do so.”

“That is indeed a fascinating tale,” said Ri-
ley, shrugging off his bonds until only the
solid manacles on his wrists remained. “And
well told.”

“Yeah, a pity I

can’t

talk off your

handcuffs.”

Riley winked. “These are screw bracelets.
’em on

The walking dummy what put

317/571
botched the job. See these barrels? They
should be at the bottom.”

“Because?”
“Because if the barrels are on top, a pris-

oner can do this . . .”

Riley brought his hands together as close
as he could, crossed thumbs, and used the
opposable digits to unscrew the handcuffs.

“Hey, presto,” said Riley, taking a deep

bow.

A slow handclap echoed across the room,
floating down from the top of a rickety
stairway.

“Bravo, boy. Well done to you.”
A giant meat cart of a man ambled down
the stairs, each step creaking under his
weight.

“Otto Malarkey,” whispered Riley. “The

big boss himself.”

Malarkey jumped the last

three steps,
sending the hanging carcasses swinging on
their chains. This man would be a character

318/571
in any age. He wore leather breeches with
pirate boots, no shirt covered his barrel
chest, and his flowing black locks were barely
contained by a shining silk top hat. Two re-
volvers hung in cowboy holsters on his hips,
and in one massive meaty paw he swished a
riding crop.

“You show some considerable talent, boy,”
he said, his booming voice bouncing off the
ceiling. “Of course that glocky tree stump,
Jeeves, screwed on yer bracelets rump-ways.
I could use you in the Rams. With that clean
mush and full set of teeth, you would make a
fine burglar boy for the genteel jobs up at
Mayfair and the likes, where my oafs attract
peelers like horse biscuits attract flies.”

Malarkey stepped forth, emerging from
the shadows, and Chevie noticed a ram’s
head tattoo on his shoulder and a pricelist on
his chest that read:

319/571

Punching_2 shillings
Both eyes blacked_4 shillings
Nose and jaw broke_10 shillings
Jacked out (knocked out with a black-
jack)_15 shillings
Ear chewed off_same as previous
Leg or arm broke_19 shillings
Shot in leg_25 shillings
Stab_same as previous
Doing the Big Job_3 pounds and up

Malarkey noticed her gaze. “Some of the
diverse services offered by the Rams. Of
course my prices have elevated with my
stature. I’ve been meaning to update the ink
since they booted me from Little Saltee pris-
on. I was king of that dung heap.” He spread
his muscled arms wide. “Now I am king of
the greatest dung heap on earth.”

Riley circled the giant warily. “What is
your interest in us, Mr. Malarkey? Why were

320/571
the Rams keeping eyes on that particular
basement?”

Malarkey kicked Riley’s vacated chair,

sending it skittering across the floor.

“Cheeky cur, posing questions to me in my
own gentlemen’s club. The Rams took a con-
tract to murder anyone who showed up in
that lurk. For two years now we’ve been
pocketing quite a stipend for doing nothing
but keeping an eye, and that’s all the inform-
ation you’ll be needing on the subject.”

“Of course, sorry, guv’nor. My mistake.”
“Hark at him,” said Malarkey. “All man-
ners and how-doyou-do. I suppose that’ll be
the rearing I gave you. You being my kin and
everything.” His chuckle was gruff with cigar
smoke and whisky. “That’s a smart mouth
you have on you, boy, and it kept the both of
you alive. You are a deal smarter than the
numbskulls who brought you in, saying you
appeared in a puff of genie magic. I could

321/571
have room for you in the Rams. The girl,
however, seems less valuable.”

Otto squatted before Chevie, taking a lock
of her hair between two fingers and sniffing
it. “Mind you, you do have the glossiest hair,
miss. How do you make it shine so?”

“Well, Mr. Malarkey,” said Chevie sweetly.
“What I do is I slap the hell out of Battering
Rams, then wash my silken locks in their
tears of shame.”

Taken at

face value,

these comments
would seem unprofessional at best and
psychotically foolhardy at worst, but as Cord
Vallicose at Quantico had informed his
young students in the Negotiating Tactics
class, In certain confrontational situations,
for example when dealing with a narcissist
or psychopath, an aggressive tack can
sometimes prove useful, as it will pique your
captor’s interest and prompt him to keep
you alive a little longer. Chevie had never
forgotten this quote and used it to justify her

322/571
regular outbursts. Riley, of course, had not
been to this lecture and could not under-
stand why Chevie repeatedly antagonized
their captors.

“She’s a simpleton,” he blurted. “There
was an accident with a high wall . . . and
some laudanum. Her marbles rolled clean
out her earholes.”

Malarkey was nonplussed. He stood and

paced awhile, uncertain how to react.

“Well, I never,” he said, rather quaintly. “I
ain’t accustomed to vinegar from gents. Now
I meet my first Injun lady, and she’s spouting
all this color at me. What’s a gang leader to
do?”

Malarkey slapped the riding crop against
his massive thigh. “Here’s the scoop, folks.
My predecessor took a job in good faith to
keep eyes on that house in Half Moon Street
and slit the neck of anyone who arrived in it.
So I find myself in a dilemma. Mine is not to
wonder why the man who contracted us

323/571
would want you two snuffed, but Otto Malar-
key don’t like to kill without reason, espe-
cially a cove like you, boy, who could be of
service. But the brotherhood accepted coin
for a job of work, and the Rams be nothing if
not reliable.”

Riley had a thought. “But you couldn’t kill

another Ram.”

“Quick thinking again, boy. But you ain’t a
Ram. A cove’s gotta be born into the brother-
hood, or fight his way in. And, with respect,
you might be able to climb a drainpipe, but
you couldn’t bend one.”

“I might surprise you,” said Riley, and to
prove his point, leaped high in the air and
smashed the empty chair with a blow from
his forearm.

“Not

too shabby,” admitted Malarkey,
flicking a splinter from his trouser leg. “But I
got a dozen better. I need something with a
little theater about it. The men are bored
watching dullards pound on each other.”

324/571
Riley held out his wrists. “Put manacles on
you

still whip whoever

and I’ll

me,
nominate.”

“I don’t know. We’ve been paid already.”
“Don’t you want to know why this man
needs us dead? Knowledge is power, ain’t
that so? And a king can’t have enough of
either.”

Malarkey slapped his thigh with the riding
crop. “You is a dazzling one, but perhaps too
smart with your verbals. I have found in this
particular kingdom that
is generally
prudent to keep the gob shut, do your busi-
ness, and ask no questions. I would like to
know why such a celebrated man would want
to see you in the dirt, but in this game know-
ing too much can see you dead quicker than
knowing too little.”

it

An idea popped into Chevie’s head. “What

if I fight, big man? How would that be?”

Malarkey’s crop froze in mid-swing. “You,
fight? We couldn’t abide that here. We only

325/571
started admitting ladies into the Hidey-Hole
recently.”

Riley was thinking three steps ahead. “Mr.
Malarkey, this lady has special Injun skills. I
seen her punch out a Cossack and his horse.
She don’t look it, but she’s a dervish, sir. A
foresighted man could make some serious
coin betting on Chevie.”

Malarkey rubbed the price list on his
chest. “The odds would be long, so the
gamble would be small. But one fight for one
place. That still leaves you out in the cold,
boy.”

“Not a problem,” said Chevie. “You pick
your two best bruisers, and I’ll fight both of
them.”

Malarkey guffawed in surprise. “Both of
’em? Fight ’em both, you say?” He winked at
Riley. “Just how high was this wall she took a
tumble from?”

The Red Glove

ORIENT THEATRE. HOLBORN. LONDON.

1898

Albert Garrick had mixed feelings on the
subject of the Orient Theatre. On the one
hand he was too much in love with his
memories of the performer’s life to ever let it
go, and on the other it caused him great pain
even to gaze on the mechanics of his once-
famous illusions.

He trod the boards now, tightening a rope
here, adjusting a mirror there. Each contrap-
tion brought a rueful smile to his thin
features.

327/571
Ah, the Chinese water bowls. How the
crowd had cheered in Blackpool. Lombardi,
they cried. Lombardi, Lombardi.

It occurred to Garrick that with his im-
proved physicality, no illusion would be off-
limits to him.

I am more supple now and could escape
from a seltzogene if need be. The Great
Lombardi could be the most famous illusion-
ist on earth.

It was a tempting notion, to travel the
courts of Europe, dazzling tsars and kings.
To have jewels strewn on the tail of his velvet
cape.

So many possibilities.
Garrick retired to his larder, preparing a
simple meal of cheese and meats, which he
consumed standing, with a crust of slightly
hardened bread and a flagon of watered
beer.

Of course I would need an assistant. This
time I will choose wisely, and not show so

328/571
much kindness. It was my own soft hand
that spoiled Riley.

Garrick returned to the Orient’s stage,
pulling his velvet cape from its peg and
wrapping it around his shoulders. Then, as a
sentimental comfort, and because he felt
somewhat alone, the magician placed the
original Lombardi’s silk top hat on his head.
Assistants are troublesome creatures, he
admitted, often developing their own per-
sonalities. Their own wants and preferences.
Sabine had also caused him considerable
pain. Had her treachery not forced him to
quit performing altogether?

But she had been so beautiful. So perfect.
Garrick felt a tiredness come over him that
he could not ignore, so he settled into an
armchair that was positioned on a low circu-
lar dais center stage and decided to allow
himself a few hours’ sleep before he began
the hunt for Riley and Chevron Savano.

329/571
And, as they often did, his dreams turned
to Sabine. His first, beautiful, perfect assist-
ant. Perfect until . . .

In the beginning it had seemed to young
Albert Garrick that his life had entered a new
phase, edging away from the horrors of his
youth. He was gaining mastery over Lom-
bardi’s works and growing into the Italian’s
boots very nicely. Not a single engagement
was canceled, and Sabine seemed more than
satisfied to renew her contract.

Garrick was besotted, and he showered the
girl with tokens of his esteem, which she ac-
cepted with squeals and hugs, calling him
her Albert and kissing his cheek. Garrick was
content for the first time, and even his night-
mares of blood and cholera grew infrequent
and seemed somehow less potent when they
did occur.

Unfortunately for young Garrick, Sabine’s
heart was colder than the baubles she loved
so much, and her intention had always been

330/571
to ditch her employer at the first sign of a
better prospect.

In the summer of 1880, a young Albert
Garrick—the Great Lombardi now—was
second on the bill below the wellknown
Anglo-Irish dramatist and actor Dion Bouci-
cault at the Adelphi, when Garrick noticed
Sabine’s flirtatious manner as she fratern-
ized with young Sandy Morhamilton, one of
the lighting boys. This vexed and puzzled
Garrick, as generally Sabine had no patience
for the crew. But a little investigation re-
vealed that young Morhamilton was no
hand-to-mouth pauper; he was, in fact, the
heir to a large coffee-trading company and
was spending a year at the Adelphi to exor-
cise the theater from his system.

And if I have uncovered Sandy’s true
so too has Sabine , Garrick
identity,
reasoned. He began to keep watch on the
pair, discovering a talent for lurking that
would serve him well in later years. Day by

331/571
day his heart was broken as the woman he
had worshipped for years gave her attention
to a dolt, a high-born halfwit.

Garrick’s love curdled into a hate that
turned inward, souring his very soul. The en-
tire affair blossomed tragically on the third
Sunday of June, during the matinee. As he
was preparing to insert the steel blades into
their slots for the Divide the Lady trick, he
noticed that Sabine’s gaze was directed to the
gantry above the stage. To his amazement,
the trollop actually blew a kiss skyward. Gar-
rick leaned close to issue a stern admonition
and, almost incredibly, he saw his rival re-
flected in his beloved’s eyes.

An irrepressible fury consumed the young
Garrick and he slammed the center blade in-
to the slot without reversing the handle,
which meant that Sabine had no chance of
avoiding the sharp steel when it eventually
fell.

332/571
Garrick’s fury was replaced by cold satis-
faction and, with a shake of his bloodied
glove toward the young Morhamilton, he fled
through the stage door and into the night,
never to return to the Adelphi, though super-
stitious theater folk swear that the Red Glove
still haunts the stalls, searching for the man
who cuckolded him.

Albert Garrick was never prosecuted for
his crime because, ironically, he was found
guilty of a lesser one. Two days later the des-
titute magician attacked a sandy-haired
youth outside the Covent Garden Theatre
and beat him half to death. His sentence
gave him the choice of a fair stretch in Newg-
ate or a spot in the Queen’s army, on a train
leaving for Afghanistan that very evening.
Garrick chose the latter, and by nightfall he
was squeezed into a troop carriage on his
way to Dover, without anyone ever realizing
that Albert Garrick’s hat fitted snugly on the
Great Lombardi’s head. He arrived among

333/571
the Afghans just in time for the great battle
of Kandahar and covered himself in bloody
glory. Garrick was offered a commission and
could have made a career for himself in the
army, but he reckoned there was more coin
to be made if he struck out as an
independent.
“Sabine,” Garrick muttered to himself, half
in slumber. “Riley.”

Garrick was not alone in the Orient. In
fact, a band of dyed-in-the-wool knaves had
been lodged there for the past couple of days,
waiting for Garrick to return from his mis-
sion in Bedford Square. These were no or-
dinary kidnappers, but a trio of superior
punishers handpicked for the grisly mission.
Their boss reckoned them the bloodiest in
his stable and trusted them with this con-
tract, which was bringing in a considerable
pocket of chink for the brotherhood.

“One body only?” Mr. Percival had asked,
the most experienced of the three, a man

334/571
who often boasted of having performed at
least one killing on a different continent for
every decade of his life.

“Yes, but an exceptional body,” his boss
had assured him, “and worthy of your com-
bined talents. Take no half measures with
this cove, lads, or you will find yourself look-
ing down Old Nick’s throat. When he returns
from his own bloody work, just wait for him
to bed down, then do the business. You wait
as long as it takes. Got it?”

The men nodded with feigned sincerity
and pocketed their advance guineas; but
once the big man was gone, they congratu-
lated each other for landing such a soft job.

“We are the luckiest of beggars,” Percival
had confided in his confederates. “This Gar-
rick mug will have his entrails on the boards
by dusk, and we will be scoffing mutton stew
for supper.”

So now Percival and his two mates roused
themselves from behind Row F of the Orient

335/571
stalls and walked crabwise to the aisles. One
took the left, the second went right, and Per-
cival himself advanced straight down the
center. Apart from the delay, events could
hardly have turned out peachier for the in-
truders. This cove Garrick, far from being a
specter of death, as advertised, had actually
plonked himself center stage for a wee nod.
The brave trio intended to flank their mark,
then close in with diverse blades.

Percival hefted a short-handled chopping
ax that he’d purchased in a supply store in
California and later used to punish a teenage
boy for pointing a finger at him. The second
man, known simply as Turk, wielded a
curved scimitar that had been in someone’s
family for generations until Turk nicked it.
And the third man, a Scot with unusually
short legs, had a baling hook slotted between
his fingers that had seen more eyeballs
dangling off its tip than hay bales. The Scot,
Pound, also carried a pistol, but bullets were

336/571
costly and a wide shot could startle their
mark into action, so best to do the job quietly
with blades.

These men had worked together before
and had developed a system of nods,
whistles, and signals that precluded any
chatter on the job. Chatty assassins did not
last long in London. Percival was the captain,
so the others looked to him for their lead.
With two jabs of his ax, he directed them to
the wings. Garrick would undoubtedly fly to
one side or another should he somehow de-
tect Percival’s approach. This was unlikely in
any case, as Percival made about as much
noise as a leaf floating across Hyde Park.
Turk and Pound resigned themselves to the
fact that the kill itself would be Percival’s, as
it generally was.

Percival mounted the stage bridge and
crept across the orchestra pit, enjoying the
weight of the ax in his hand, relishing the

337/571
thunk it would make chopping a wedge out
of the mark’s skull.

Four more steps, then it’s mutton stew for

me and the lads. Three more steps.

Percival sprang onto the stage proper, and
he knew that at this distance there was not a
man or animal on earth who could escape
the deadly arc of his swing.

I could fell a bear from this distance, he

thought.

He raised the ax high and brought the
blade down with terrific force. It struck noth-
ing but chair, slicing through the padding
and biting deep into the wooden backrest.

Percival’s brain could not understand how

certainty had become uncertain.
“Magic,” said a voice. “All

is not as it

seems.”

Percival yanked the ax free and whirled to-
ward the source of these mysterious words.
There in the corner stood the mark himself,
Garrick, wrapped in his conjurer’s cape.

338/571
“Do you approve of my cloak? It’s a little
theatrical, but this is a performance, after
all.”

He don’t know about the others, thought
Percival. Else he would not be blathering on.
Percival whistled two notes, high and low.
The signal for Turk to advance from the folds
of velvet curtain that concealed him.

Turk made even less noise than Percival,
as he wore silken slippers, which he called
his murder shoes. He came up on Garrick
from the rear and reached out for a shoulder,
to steady the magician for the scimitar’s
blade, but his questing fingers skinned them-
selves on glass instead of flesh and bone.

A mirror,

thought Turk. I have been

misled.

Terror sank into his gut like a lead an-
chor—he had the wit to know that he was
done for.

339/571
The mirror image of Garrick reached out
through the mirror and plucked Turk’s own
sword from his hand.

“You will not have need of this,” said Gar-
rick’s image, and he plunged it directly into
Turk’s heart.

Turk died believing a phantasm had killed
him. His final wish was that he could return
as a spirit to this place in order to decipher
the events leading up to his death, but unfor-
tunately that’s not
the way the afterlife
works, especially for blackhearted killers.

Percival would have attacked then, but he
was uncertain of his enemy’s position. He
heard an ominous creaking behind him and
turned to see a large set piece being lowered
from the flies. The piece was circular and
constructed of canvas
stretched over a
wooden frame. On the front were circles
painted within circles.

“Stone me,” breathed Percival. “A target.”

340/571
“Stone you?” came a voice from the black-
ness of the stalls. “I fear you are missing the
point, but not for long.”

Percival backed up until his shoulder
blades bumped the target and his head sat
squarely in the bull’s-eye. Before he could
twig the implications, a veritable hail of
blades hissed from the darkness.

I am done, thought Percival, and closed his

eyes.

But done he was not; instead the various
knives, forks, swords, and bayonets pinned
him tightly to the target, drawing no more
than a pint of blood from minor wounds.

Was this by accident or design? Percival
knew not, but he took advantage of his still-
pumping
final
confederate.

to his

lungs

to

call

“Damn the blades, Pound. Plug this cove.”
Pound rushed from his place of conceal-
ment and waved the barrel of his pistol

341/571
around, searching for the mark. “Where are
you, Garrick? Show yourself!”

By some device, Garrick appeared where
he had not been a second before, his face
pale in the stage lights, dark hair rippling
over his shoulders.

“I am insulted by this attack on my home.

Insulted, I say.”

“Quite yer

jittering and stand still,”

ordered Pound.

“That you may shoot me dead? An odd re-
quest. However, as you wish. Pull your blas-
ted trigger, but take care—if you miss, I shall
not.”

The cards were apparently all in Pound’s
hands, but with his boss pegged to a target,
he was nervous.

“Shoot him, man!” Percival urged. “A

monkey could make the shot.”

Garrick spread his arms wide. “Make your

shot, Scotsman. Unto dust.”

342/571
Pound blinked the sweat from his eyes,
wondering how this job had turned into such
a dog’s dinner.

“On yer knees, Garrick.”
“Oh, no, I kneel for no man.”
Percival strained against the knives that
secured him. “Shoot him, Pound! Pull the
trigger.”

“You are weak,” said Garrick mockingly.

“A coward!”

Pound fired his pistol and a flute of blue
smoke billowed from the barrel. The noise
was deafening, and for a moment Garrick’s
upper torso was wreathed in a flickering
cloud.

When the smoke cleared, Garrick was re-
vealed, hale and hardy, with no changes to
his appearance but for the blood on his teeth
and the bullet between them.

“Oh, my God,” breathed Pound.

“He

caught the bullet. This is no mortal man.”

343/571
“Shoot again, you fool!” cried Percival.

“You hold a revolver in yer hand.”

Garrick spoke between his teeth. “One
chance only. Now, you must stand still for
my bullet.”

Pound was so confused that his feet were
like anchors and tears streamed down his
ruddy cheeks. “But you are without a pistol.”
Garrick rubbed his fingers before his
mouth as though warming them, then spat
out the bullet with such force that it penet-
rated Pound’s forehead and dropped him
where he stood.

Percival realized then how deep in the

mire he stood.

“Please, mister. We have cash in our
pokes. Take it and let me go. I will be on the
next boat to America.”

Garrick’s eyes held no hint of mercy. “I
need the name of the man who pulls your
strings.”

344/571
Percival ground his teeth. “I cannot. I

swore an oath.”

“Aha, an oath,” said Garrick, meandering
toward the massive target. “That in itself is a
telltale sign.”

“I’ll say no more,” said Percival, stub-

bornly. “Do your worst, you devil.”

“That, sir, is quite an invitation,” said Gar-
rick, removing one by one the knives sticking
Percival to the target. “You may have sur-
mised that I was once an illusionist of some
fame. Some called me the Great Lombardi,
but notoriety bestowed upon me another
name.”

Garrick paused and Percival could not take
it. “What name? In God’s name, stop toying
with me.”

Garrick whipped a covering sheet from a
coffin-shaped box stage left. “I was known as
the Red Glove.”

345/571
Percival’s eyes rolled back and he fainted
where he stood, held aloft only by a cleaver
and a stiletto.

“You’ve heard the legend, I see,” said Gar-

rick, plucking out the remaining blades.
Percival woke in the box, strapped down
tight, bare feet poking from the end.

Garrick leaned over him, dressed now in
full evening wear, with silken hat and dinner
gloves, one white, one red.

“This is my most famous illusion,” he said.
“A somewhat irksome truth, as it is the only
illusion that ever went fatally awry.”

“Awry?” said Percival, his head fuzzy.

“Does that mean wrong, sir?”

“Oh, it does. And do you know what fatally

means?”

Percival searched his vocabulary, which
consisted of little more than two hundred
words, most of them food related. “Dead,
sir—is it that someone was killed?”

346/571
“You are more educated than you look, Mr.

. . . ?”

“Percival, guv’nor.”
“Percival. A good strong Welsh name.”
“Welsh, yes. Perhaps you have Welsh kin

and will spare me?”

Garrick ignored the question, drawing
from behind his back with quite a flourish a
large, wooden-handled, square blade.

“This is the key to the illusion, Percival:
the blade. The audience assumes it is a fake-
ment, but I assure you it is of the finest steel
and will cut through flesh and bone with
barely a stutter.”

And, with great panache and dexterity,
Garrick tossed the blade into the air, caught
it, then rammed the tempered steel square
into the leg slot, appearing to sever Percival’s
feet from his legs.

“Mercy!” screamed Percival. “Kill me and

be done. This is torture, sir. Pure torture.”

347/571
Garrick clicked his fingers and from some-
where overhead came the sound of an
orchestra.

“You must indulge me, Monsieur Percival.

I so rarely have need of the old togs.”

Percival’s face seemed to swell with fear. “I
ain’t no blower. The judges could never make
old Percival blab, and neither will you.”

“Why so hysterical, Percival?” asked Gar-
rick innocently. “I have done you no harm.
Look.”

Percival saw that there was a large gilt-
edged mirror suspended above the prosceni-
um arch. He commanded his toes to wiggle
and was mightily relieved to see them do it in
the looking glass.

“But the light is so bad in here, Mr. Perciv-

al. I should afford you a closer spy.”

And with that Garrick separated the lower
box from the main body, and Percival
screamed as his feet rolled away from him,
toes wiggling furiously.

348/571
“My little piggies,” he howled. “Oh, come

back, piggies.”

“Who sent you?” demanded Garrick, bran-

dishing a second blade.

“No. Never.”
“I admire your stoicism, Mr. Percival,
really I do, but this is a battle of wills, so you
leave me little choice . . .” Garrick steadied
himself against the saw-box, then drove the
second blade into its slot.

Percival gibbered, tears flowing from eyes
to ears, and he unconsciously began to sing
the ditty of freemasonry loyalty that he had
warbled in many a public house with his tat-
tooed brethren.

We stabs ’em,
We fights ’em,
Cripples ’em,
Bites ’em.

Garrick was not surprised. “Ah, Mr. Malar-
key, would you insert yourself in my affairs?

349/571
Thank you, faithful Sir Percival. You have
done all I asked of you. So I will inflict no
further harm upon your person.”
Percival was beyond rational thinking now,
and continued to sing.

No rules for our mayhem.
You pay us, we slay ’em.
If you’re in a corner,
With welshers or scams.

Garrick sang along for the last two lines,

inserting a clever harmony.

Pay us a visit,
The Battering Rams.

Garrick applauded, his red glove flashing
in the lights. “You have a fine tenor, Percival.
Not professional standard, but pleasing.
Won’t you delight me with an encore?”

Percival obliged, his voice becoming more
tremulous with each note, dissolving entirely

350/571
into a terrified, burbling scream as Garrick
took hold of the head box and sent it twirling
across the stage.

Percival’s last sight was his own receding
torso and the wiggling tips of his fingers,
straining to be loose from their bonds.

Garrick could have told him that it was all
done with mirrors and prosthetics, but a
good magician never reveals his secrets.

He danced a quickstep jauntily across the

orchestra pit bridge.

“‘Pay us a visit,’” he sang, deciding to sing
high for the last phrase, “‘The Battering
Raaaaaaams.’”

And he thought, I intend to do just that.
The magician stamped on a powder bomb
hidden beneath a patch of carpet in the cen-
ter aisle and disappeared in a magnesium
flash and a ball of smoke.

Golgoth Golgoth

THE BATTERING RAMS' HIDEY-HOLE.

ROGUES' WALK. LONDON. 1898

It had occurred to special agent Chevron
Savano that she might be the victim of some
massive sting operation. There were files
from World War II that told stories of pris-
oners in war hospitals who had been con-
vinced that the war was over by English-
speaking enemies and allowed themselves to
be debriefed, but they were high-ranking
prisoners and the operations were hugely ex-
pensive. She was barely more than a FBI
wannabe with a tin badge. No one was going

352/571
to go to such fantastic lengths for the piddly
secrets in her brain.

Any lingering doubts that she might not
actually be in nineteenth-century London
disappeared the moment Chevie emerged
from the dungeon into Otto Malarkey’s den
of thieves, cutthroats, and wastrels.

Riley grabbed her elbow.
“Agent . . . Chevie, let me be the mouth-
piece in the Rams’ Hidey-Hole. I know these
people.”

“Relax, kid, I can talk for myself.”
Riley’s expression was pained. “I know.
Your impetuous nature seems to land you in
hot water no matter what the era.”

“It’s psychology, Riley,” said Chevie de-
fensively, though she knew it was only half
true. “You wouldn’t understand it.”

The Battering Rams’ Hidey-Hole did not
seem much like a hole, nor did it seem like
they were hiding from anyone. The store-
room’s rickety stairs opened into the entire

353/571
ground floor of a wide house with no divid-
ing walls to hold up the ceiling, which sagged
alarmingly and would have collapsed entirely
but for the brick chimney breast. The grand
room was crammed with so many lifelong
thieves that such a concentration of crimin-
ality would have been difficult to achieve
elsewhere outside of a prison compound.

Animals roamed freely through the hall,
including chickens, hounds, and actual rams,
tangling their impressive horns to the en-
couragement of the two-legged Rams.

There were several makeshift stages con-
structed from barrels and planks where bur-
lesque ladies sang drinking songs or street
conjurers ran thimble games. At least four
parrots hid in the crystal chandeliers, swear-
ing in as many languages. “Wow,” said Chev-
ie, feeling the room revolve kaleidoscopically
around her. “This is unreal.”

“Say nothing,” Riley hissed. “I may still be

able to slip us out of here.”

354/571
He dodged between a monkey and its
handler to catch Malarkey. “Mr. Malarkey,
Your Majesty. I have some conjuring skills.
Doves, rabbits, that kind of thing. Think of a
card, any card.”

Malarkey strode into the center of the
room. “No. We agreed on a bout, lad. Save
yer politicking. Wasn’t it you who suggested
I bet on the battling lady?”

This was a good point.
“Yes,” admitted Riley. “But that was . . .”
Malarkey stepped over an unconscious
sailor clutching a roasted leg of pork. “That
was when you was belowdecks in the killin’
basement, with blood on the floor and waste
seeping through the walls, and you thought
you would spout off whatever it took to see
the light of day, but now you see said light of
day and are thinking to yerself, Maybe I can
stall poor old simple Malarkey and finagle a
way out of here for me and the pretty lass.”
Riley had a shot at arguing. “No. I have

top-notch

355/571
genuine
skills. Watch.” He
snatched a vicious dagger from the belt of a
nearby sailor and jammed it between the ribs
of a man who, for some reason, wore a
striped swimming costume. The blade stuck
but did no apparent harm.

“See?”
“Not a bad effort,” said Malarkey. “But I
have my mind set on a fight.” A thought
struck him and he stopped abruptly, turning
to Chevie. “Do you know the Marquess of
Queensbury Rules?”

Chevie was stretching out her shoulders.

“Nope. Can’t say that I do.”

Malarkey tapped her on the head with his

riding crop.

“Capital. Neither do we. No holds barred is

all the legal we have here.”

With a single bound, Malarkey mounted a
central platform where there was a squat
wooden and velvet throne, resplendent with
a mightily horned, shaggy ram’s fleece. He

356/571
aimed a kick at a monkey who sat in the
king’s spot, then twirled on his heel, falling
neatly into the throne. Malarkey smiled for a
moment with paternal
the
various forms of criminal mayhem unfurling
all around, then snagged a brass speaking
trumpet from its leather holster on the arm
of his throne. “Listen, Rams,” he called, his
voice projected yet tinny.

indulgence at

“Who among you fine sporting gents fan-

cies a wager with your king?”

The word spread like the plague through
the assembled rabble, and soon they were
clamoring for sport at the feet of their king.

“Very well, Rams,” said Malarkey, rising to
his feet. “I have a belter for you this evening,
to delay you indoors awhile when you should
be outside performing your customary hon-
est labors.” A raucous laugh rose to the very
roof at the partnering of the words honest
and labors.

357/571
“I, your chosen monarch, in sight of the
sacred fleece, offer you a wager. And I am
telling you coves right from the off that you
won’t be taking a ha’penny of my hard-
earned. So, who’s got the bottle?”

Many hands went up, and some even

tossed coins to the foot of the dais.

“Not so fast, my eager bucks. Let me fill
you in on the details, lest there be accusa-
tions of cheatin’ flying around laterwise.”
Malarkey leaned over, plucking Riley and
Chevie from the crowd. “So, my people, what
we have here are two possible recruits. A fine
little grifter with fast ’ands, and his Injun
princess. I’ve instructed ’em only one fights,
and that one fights for two.”

“I’ll take him,” said the knifed swimmer.
Malarkey waved him away. “No, you ain’t
heard the best bit. The one that’s stepping up
is the young lady.”

This announcement was met with pande-
monium. “We can’t have a lady on the

358/571
canvas,” objected the challenger, backing in-
to the throng.

Malarkey stamped a foot. “You have be-
held my champion, Rams. Now, show me
yours!”

There was no immediate response to this
challenge. It was not a matter of cowardice;
it was the left-footed awkwardness of tuss-
ling with a female in public.

But not all were awkward: one man soon

skipped to the front of the line.

“I will crack her skull for her.”
The contender was a bald six-footer with

bandy legs from carrying his beer gut.

“Can I use me bludgeon? I never fights

without it for reasons of balance.”

shocked.

“Use

Malarkey was

yer
bludgeon? Of course you can use yer
bludgeon, Mr. Skelp. I would never deprive a
brother of his beloved weapon of choice.”

Skelp drew from behind his back a black-
thorn club the size of Chevie’s leg. As if its

359/571
dimensions were not
formidable enough,
Skelp had hammered on armored plates that
had doubtless once been shining steel but
were now dull with congealed liquid and
matter.

“Charming,” said Chevie. “You guys are a
classy bunch.” Malarkey laughed. “Skelp is
one of our more sophisticated brothers. Be-
times he reads stories to the illiterates.

“The odds are ten to one on Skelpy. Cash
only, no markers. Give yer coin to my
accountant.”

A small man in a waistcoat was suddenly
besieged by aggressive men with money and
dealt with them all efficiently, using a com-
plicated system of facial tics and swearing.
Once the betting was done, a space was
cleared in front of the dais. Riley guessed
that this was the traditional bareknuckle
arena, and he hoped that the dark splashes
on the floorboards were simply wine or beer.

360/571
Chevie did not seem anxious, though there
could be nothing familiar to her about the
proceedings.

Riley realized that the attention of every
man in the room was on Chevie, and that
this was a perfect time to look for a way out
for them both. He couldn’t abandon her now.
We are partners, till the end of this affair.

the

competition. Chevie

The Battering Rams jostled for a ringside
view as the opponents readied themselves
for
carefully
stretched her muscles and tendons, while
Skelp stripped to his waist and spoke soft
words to his darling bludgeon. “I will call the
match,” said Malarkey through his speaking
trumpet. “Last man . . . or woman . . . stand-
ing shall be proclaimed victor. Both parties
prepared for the bout?” Skelp spat a gob of
chewed tobacco, mostly on his own boot.
Chevie simply nodded and balled her fists.

“Then begin!” called Malarkey.

361/571
The Rams were expecting the little lass to
be brim-full of vinegar and take a run at
Skelp, possibly causing him to fall down
laughing. They were prepared to berate their
comrade good-naturedly as he was eventu-
ally forced to tap the girlie on her noggin in
order to claim his winnings.

They were utterly unprepared for what ac-
tually happened, and several burst out laugh-
ing, presuming that it was some manner of
jape orchestrated by King Otto for a bit of a
giggle. Before the echo of Malarkey’s words
faded, Chevie rushed in low, used a basic
judo disarming maneuver to twist the club
out of Skelp’s grasp, then unleashed an out-
of-the-ballpark uppercut with the man’s own
beloved bludgeon that knocked out three of
his teeth and sent him flying into a gaggle of
his comrades. The whole lot went down like
ninepins.

362/571
“Next,” said Chevie, which was a bit melo-
dramatic, but no more so than the entire
situation.

A silence followed Chevie’s victory, the like
of which hadn’t been heard in this arcade in
twenty years, not since Gunther No Nose
Kelly earned his nickname during a rat-eat-
ing contest. “Wait for it,” said Malarkey out
of the side of his mouth. When the as-
sembled Rams realized that their invested
chink was in serious danger of disappearing
beyond their grubby grasp forever, the short-
lived silence was shattered by a collective
moan that rose like an ululating wave and
crashed in a sea of objections.

“Hold on there!”
“Unfair! Unfair!”
“Will you beat a man with his own club?”
“She ain’t no female. She’s a witch.”
Malarkey silenced the clamor with a bel-
low through his trumpet, then addressed the
stunned congregation.

363/571
“You fellers seem a mite surprised by my
little whirling dervish here. I warned you,
but no—you fine gentlemen knows better
than yer beloved regent.”

Malarkey rubbed Chevie’s head as though
she were a favored puppy and even instruc-
ted Riley to relax in his throne. “Here,” he
said, tossing a purse of gold to Riley. “A
share for the Injun princess, even though
that were not part of the deal; but I am a fair
and benevolent monarch.”

Malarkey faced his subjects.
“Listen, my gallows-bound busters, there
is another twist to this tale. You have wit-
nessed what my champion can do, so maybe
yer regretting monies wagered. So I offer you
one chance to retract yer wager without pen-
alty. But if you leave yer ill-gotten gains in
the kitty, then among the benefits that will
accrue to you are shorter odds, a free toddy,
and the admiration of your peers. And who
steps up to spill the blood is your affair. You

364/571
coves have leave to select the burliest muck-
snipe from among your ranks to set against
my little girlie. Choose whomsoever you
fancy, so long as he bears the mark.” Riley
found his discomfort swelling with every
passing second. This was a fine penny-show
for the Rams, but Chevie and himself were
sitting ducks. If Garrick had managed to
dump his carcass into the tunnel-of-time, it
wouldn’t be long before some tidbits con-
cerning a battling squaw dropped into his
ear hole. And then the Thames water rats
will be raking two extra floaters out of the
dawn currents.

Riley perched on the throne’s cushion.
“Chevie,” he whispered, “do the business
quick as you like,
then we can make
ourselves scarce. My skin is crawling with
the feeling that Garrick is coming.”

“Roger that. We need to be on our way,”

said Chevie.

365/571
Every one of Riley’s Garrick is coming
hunches had been bang on the money so far.
Malarkey overheard the exchange. He
plucked Riley from the throne, depositing
him at his feet like a royal puppy, or jester.
“Don’t worry about Albert Garrick. My best
team of murdering scum have been lying in
wait for him at his digs, their time bought by
the very same fancy gent who ordered your
deaths. As to you two foundlings being on
your way, I think you have misremembered
our arrangement.”

she

asked. Riley’s

Chevie punched her fist into her palm and
several large men jumped backward. “What
arrangement?”
chin
dropped to his breastbone, and he answered
the question for Malarkey. “We are fighting
our way into the Rams, the alternative being
a sudden case of violent death— yours and
mine. Once we are in, then we are Malarkey’s
for life.” Malarkey pointed at Riley. “A

366/571
shilling to the boy for keenness. You fight for
the very breath in your lungs, little lady.

And if you wrestle your death from my
grasp, then I still hold your life. Remember
that well.”

He swiveled on the balls of his feet like a
trained swordsman until his riding crop
pointed at Riley. “Take this one and mark
him. He is ours now.”

Hands descended on Riley from the crowd,
so many that it seemed as though he were
being swallowed by a sea anemone.

Riley fought, dropping several of his
captors with well-placed blows, but whenev-
er one fell another sprang to take his place.

The Rams lifted him high and carried him
through the throng to a far corner of the
room, where a decrepit old man sat surroun-
ded by books, boxes of needles, and little ink
bottles of dense, jeweled colors. The man’s
fingers were small like a child’s but gnarled
and inked in the wrinkles, each knuckle a

367/571
rainbow. Riley found himself plonked in a
wooden chair and held in place by viselike
fingers on each shoulder.

“A young recruit, is it?” said the man.
“That is the case, Farley,” said Riley’s re-
strainer. Farley set his store of needles tink-
ling as he poked through them. “Not really a
Ram,” he muttered. “More a lamb than a
Ram. Still, mine is not to wonder why . . .”
He selected a thin needle to make the mark.

“Mister, ain’t you going to a-sketch it on

first?” Riley asked nervously.

Farley’s cough rolled in his throat. “Sketch,
is it? Boy, I been doing the ram for years,
could do it in me sleep, I could. Now, quit yer
vibrations, or it’s a goat adornment you’ll be
sporting in place of a ram.”

“That needle is clean, ain’t it? I don’t want
to lose an arm.” “Worry not, the tool is steril-
ized better than any steel in St. Bart’s. No
one ever saw a bubble of pus from Anton

368/571
Farley’s needles. I will do her small and
quick, and the time will pass.

And presently I will select a second,
alcohol-swabbed needle to pick out the ram
on your friend.”

At the mention of his friend, Riley craned
his neck, trying to look back toward the box-
ing circle without moving his shoulder. From
his seat he couldn’t see so much as the top of
Chevie’s head, just a throng of Rams who
had set up a chant.

“Golgoth, Golgoth,” intoned the criminal

coterie, and again, “Golgoth, Golgoth.”

“Ah, me,” said Farley sadly. “Just the one

needle, then.”

Chevie was not yet accustomed to the
sheer pungency of Victorian London. Even
the air seemed to have a sepia tinge to it, and
mystery flakes landed on her head and
shoulders, mottling her skin.

369/571
That can’t be good, she thought. I don’t
even want to think about where those flakes
come from.

The Rams had formed a loose human cor-
don around her and seemed to have de-
veloped a certain prudence in approaching
the Injun maid, probably due to the large
club dangling from her dainty fist and the
blood dripping from its howjadoo end.

And now the men were chanting the word
Golgoth, which Chevie suspected would turn
out to be some particularly vicious incarna-
tion of Battering Ram.

Battering Rams. If these guys got any
more macho, they could have their own
show on cable TV fixing motorcycles and
pumping iron.

The ocean of men parted and a malevolent
hulk strutted into the circle like he was the
world’s best at something violent.

370/571
So this is Golgoth, thought Chevie. It’s
probably going to take two wallops to knock
out this guy.

Golgoth reached up a delicate forefinger
and thumb, pinching his crown and remov-
ing his hair, which apparently was some kind
of hairpiece.

“Hold Marvin for me, would you, Gil-
hooley?” said Golgoth, dropping the hair-
piece into the hand of his much smaller
friend, who did what his far larger friend re-
quested of him, which was probably the basis
upon which their relationship was built.

Two things

about Golgoth surprised

Chevie.

One: his creepy hairpiece had a name.
And two: no one besides her seemed to
find the word Gilhooley hilarious. It sounded
a little bit rude, but she wasn’t sure why.

“Okay, Golgoth,” she said, cracking her

knuckles. “I will try to hurt you humanely.”

371/571
“I ain’t no Golgoth,” said the giant. “I is his

little bruvver.”

Which was the last thing she heard before
something the size of a cement block hit her
square in the chest with the speed of a freight
train.

•••

Chevie may have been strong and quick, but
she was also small and light. The blow from
her mystery attacker knocked the FBI agent
over and set her skidding across the floor-
boards, picking up dozens of splinters in the
process.

The pain was

so huge that Chevie
wondered if her lungs had been crushed, and
she was relieved when her breathing started
up again.
“Oooh,”

a blood-string
swinging between her lip and the ruined
shards of her Timekey on the floor.

she

groaned,

I am stranded here.

372/571

“No fair.”
“Golgoth! Golgoth!” chanted the Rams,
stamping their boots to set the floorboards a-
jumping.

Chevie raised herself to all fours, wonder-
ing if her skull was fractured,
thinking,
Where is this Golgoth guy? Can Victorians
do invisible?

She struggled to her feet, shaking her head
to extinguish the stars in her vision, casting
around for her attacker. There was no one in
the fighting arena but Otto Malarkey.

“Where is he?” Chevie asked blearily.

“Point me toward Golgoth.”

Malarkey touched two fingers to his lips, a
gesture of guilt. “I am afraid, princess, that I
am Golgoth. My old circus
strongman
name.”

Oh, crud, thought Chevie. “But I’m fight-

ing for you!”

Malarkey removed the fingers from his
lips, wagging them at the assembled Rams.

373/571
“I said they could pick any Ram, and the
clever bleeders picked me. After all, who bet-
ter? Now I must choose between purse and
pride.”

Let me guess, thought Chevie. Pride wins.
“And in that tussle, pride wins every time.
I must sacrifice my wager to save my
position.”

Chevie adopted a boxer’s stance, dipping

her chin low behind raised fists.

Not that it matters much. With those
hands, Malarkey could punch straight
through my guard. I will have to rely on my
speed.

The crowd’s attitude shifted from raucous
encouragement to quiet, feral anticipation.
There was much at stake here. Both com-
batants were being tested, but while Chevron
was fighting for her life, Malarkey fought to
prove himself loyal to his men, and he knew
that there would be more than one Ram

374/571
praying for him to fall and leave a vacancy
for the top position.

The contestants circled each other with
wary respect. Chevie’s ear was ringing with
what she couldn’t help feeling was the Star
Trek theme tune, which was extremely dis-
tracting. Malarkey rolled his shoulders and
danced light-footed back and forth in a com-
plicated jiglike routine that was almost as
distracting as the ringing.

After a minute or so of sizing each other
up, both fighters attacked at the same mo-
ment, to a tumultuous roar from the Rams.
Malarkey’s swiftness was limited by his sheer
bulk, and only his eyeballs could move with
sufficient quickness to capture Chevie dart-
ing under his ham-fist to punch him twice in
the solar plexus. Which had about as much
effect as throwing a snowball at Mount
Everest.

Punches not working, Chevie realized,
straightening her fingers and jabbing them

375/571
into Malarkey’s kidney. It does not matter if
a man is as big as a house and made from red
brick: if he gets a solid poke in the kidneys, it
is going to hurt.

Malarkey roared and reflexively jerked his
torso, which bumped Chevie into the human
cordon around the fighting arena.

Rough hands tousled her hair and one

cheeky so-and-so even patted her bottom.

“See that? What she done with her fingers

there?” said one Ram, behind her.

“Fingers? I coulda sworn she used her

thumb,” replied his comrade.

“Nah, dopey. Four fingers, held stiff, like
so.” And the Ram demonstrated the move on
Chevie, sending her lower back into spasm
and giving Malarkey enough to time to get a
grip on her neck.

Game over, thought Chevie, as her feet left

the ground.

She chopped at Malarkey’s forearm and
pinched the nerves in the crook of his elbow,

376/571
just as Cord Vallicose had assured her would
break the grip of the biggest son of a gun on
this green earth. Apparently he hadn’t taken
Victorian crime bosses into account.

Malarkey laughed in her face, but Chevie
thought she detected a spark of relief in his
eyes.

“You had help, Otto. Remember that when

you’re gloating on your throne.”

Malarkey squeezed her windpipe, choking
off the accusation along with her air. Chevie
hung on to his arm, taking the strain off her
neck, trying to avoid spinal damage, but
already the lack of oxygen was blurring her
vision and draining the strength from her
limbs.

“Riley,” she croaked, though she knew the
boy was under guard outside the throng. He
could neither see her nor help her if he did
catch a glimpse.

Malarkey drew back his free hand. “This
pains me greatly, little maid. Yes, I prove my

377/571
physical supremacy once again, but it will
cost me a pretty pound to honor all the chink
bet against you, not to mention the fact that I
lose me own wager. I bet on you, girl, and
you let me down.”

Malarkey clenched his fist, his knuckles

creaking.

“I won’t kill you,” he promised. “And you
should wake up with most of yer teeth and
marbles.”

Chevie tried to draw away, but she was
held fast. The ringing in her ears changed
from Star Trek to something more strident.
A simple bell. Was her subconscious trying
to tell her something?

Malarkey cocked an ear, and Chevie
thought for a second that he could hear what
was inside her head; then the Ram king
called, “Shush! Shut yer babbling gobs. Can
you not see I am listening?”

Silence fell almost instantly, except for Mr.

Skelp, who was just waking up.

378/571
“Wot’s occurring, mates? I remember hav-
ing me porridge this morning and then . . .
nuffink.”

Malarkey took three steps into the crowd

and silenced Skelp with a boot to the chin.

“I said quiet, you dolts!”
There was dead silence, except for the

curious ringing.

Malarkey’s eyes widened as his mind con-
nected the noise with an object. “The Tele-
phonicus! ’Tis the Telephonicus Farspeak!”

lemminglike,

A chorused Awww rose through the
Hidey-Hole’s ballroom, and all the heads
swiveled,
toward Malarkey’s
throne. On a walnut parlor table stood a
device, carved from ivory, in two parts: a
base and cylinder, connected by twisting
cables. The device jangled with each ring.

Malarkey summarily hurled Chevie into

the arms of the throng.

“Hold her. Not too tight now, boys. No one

hurts the maiden but me.”

379/571
He ran to the Telephonicus Farspeak and
little finger

delicately answered the call,
raised like a duchess taking tea.

“Helloooo,” he said, his accent a little more
refined than usual. “This is Mr. Otto Malar-
key speaking from the HideyHole. Who is it
on the hother end?”

Malarkey listened a moment, then pressed
the earpiece to his chest and hissed to the
Rams.

“It’s Charismo. I can hear him so clear, like

he’s a fairy in my ear hole.”

No one was particularly surprised to hear
that it was Charismo’s voice emanating from
the earpiece, as it was Mr. Charismo who had
installed the Farspeak in the Hidey-Hole.
Even so, at the mention of his name, several
of the villains blessed themselves, and a
couple of the Catholics genuflected. A few
more Rams formed triangles with their
thumbs and forefingers, an ancient gesture
to ward off evil.

380/571
“Come now, brothers. Mr. Charismo is a
friend to the Rams,” said Malarkey, but his
words sounded forced and hollow.

Malarkey listened some more, his face fall-
ing. When Charismo had finished speaking,
Malarkey nodded as if that could be trans-
mitted over the phone line, then replaced the
ivory earpiece in its holder on the base.

“Well, Rams,” he said. “There’s good and
bad in it. Mr. Charismo has heard somehow
of the Injun and the boy. He instructs that
we deliver them direct
to his residence.
There is not to be a mark on either, he says.”
“And the good news?” asked a Ram in the

front row of the throng.

“The good? The good is that the bout can-
not technically be concluded, so all bets are
off.” Malarkey smiled broadly. “Which is
good news. For your king, which is me.”

A few of the Rams grumbled, but not too
loudly, and Malarkey knew that his luck
would not be questioned. All in all, it was the

381/571
best possible result for the Ram king: his
reputation was intact, his purse no lighter,
and Mr. Charismo had been in a much better
mood than expected, considering. A good
day’s graft all around.

•••

Farley finished the simple Ram motif on Ri-
ley’s shoulder and swabbed it with medicinal
alcohol.

“Don’t pick at the scab,” he advised, “or
you’ll end up with scarring, which makes my
design look bad.”

Riley could not work out what had
happened. “Is my friend safe? Is the fighting
done?”

Farley placed a clean rag across the tattoo.
“The fight has been suspended. A client has
expressed an interest in meeting you, as I
thought he might.”

Riley frowned. There were politics at work

here.

382/571
“So, you sent word to this gent? It was you

that saved us, Mr. Farley?”

Farley tied the knot tightly. “Quiet now,
boy. I took a few bob for sending a message,
that’s all.”

Riley touched the bandage gingerly. “Who
is this client? What would he want with us?”
Farley carefully and methodically capped
his inks and replaced them in a wooden case.
“This client is a most singular individual,”
he said. “A genius in many fields, he is, and a
generous benefactor to those who keep him
informed. As to what he wants with you,
well, that’s a question he will answer in
person.”

“Any words of wisdom for me, Mr. Farley?
Regarding this mysterious client and how to
keep him sweet?”

Farley smiled and his teeth were remark-
ably white inside wizened lips. “You are a
smart one, boy. That is possibly the best
question to have asked, when there was only

383/571
time for one.” Farley thought while he wiped
his needle. “I would advise you to keep your-
self interesting. Be amusing in your conver-
sation. Mr. Charismo is unlikely to send you
back here for as long as he finds your com-
pany scintillating.”

Riley stood on the stool and caught sight
of Chevie, who was terrorizing the Rams try-
ing to restrain her.

Scintillating, he thought. That shouldn’t

prove too difficult.

Then the name mentioned by Farley pen-

etrated his brain.

Mr. Charismo? Surely not Tibor Char-
ismo, the most famous man in all of Eng-
land. What was his involvement in this
whole affair?

Whatever Mr. Charismo’s intentions to-
ward their persons, they were sure to be less
lethal than those of either Albert Garrick or
Otto Malarkey.

384/571
Perhaps we will have a moment’s respite.

Perhaps even a bite to eat.

Riley waved at Chevie

and smiled

encouragingly.

Our situation is about to improve, he

wanted to tell her. Be of good cheer.

But Chevie was not in good cheer and
would not be for some time; for, lying in the
palm of one hand, were the remains of the
Timekey, which had been smashed utterly by
Otto Malarkey’s surprise blow.

THE ORIENT THEATRE. HOLBORN.

LONDON. 1898

Before quitting the Orient in search of the
Rams, Garrick checked that his cashbox was
still hidden in a steel safe below the conduct-
or’s podium in the orchestra pit. It would be
a galling shame to return after dumping the
bodies of Percival and his cronies in the

385/571
Thames to realize they had raided the stash
before his arrival.

Garrick loaded all three bodies onto a cart
in the yard and made a quick trip across to
the low-lying marshes on the Isle of Dogs to
lighten his load.

More food for the fish, he thought as the
macabre packages slid below the murky
waters.

And now, with the day’s donkey work com-
pleted, he could attend to more important
business. Specifically, to find out who had
hired the Rams to do him in. There was one
man who would surely be able to answer that
question, and Garrick knew precisely where
that man would be.

The Hidey-Hole. Is that not how the Bat-
tering Rams referred to their infamous
club?

As if it were hidden. As if every bobby in
London were not perfectly aware of its exact
address. As if constables did not extend their

386/571
routes by miles simply to avoid going any-
where near the Rams’ headquarters.

Yes, the un-hidden Hidey-Hole. The next

port of call for the Red Glove.

The sun was already long past the spire
when Garrick purchased a mug of coffee
from his regular man on the tip of Oxford
Street, but his palate had been educated by
twenty-first-century coffee, and he judged
this mug as bilge water not fit for the Irish.
He flung it to the cobbles and vowed to take
his custom elsewhere in the future.

The coffee soured his mood briefly, but the
memory of his artful disposal of the three
Rams who had violated his beloved theater
cheered him somewhat.

I behaved righteously, he realized. Bad
men came to murder me and I defeated
them.

Self-defense was unusual for Garrick, and
he allowed a grim and righteous anger to
build in his breast.

387/571
An eye for an eye, sayeth the scriptures,
thought the magician, deciding to ignore the
New Testament for now, as Turn the other
cheek did not suit his argument.

In daylight hours the Haymarket was little
more than a rowdy thoroughfare, with an un-
commonly high number of gin houses; but
the rising of the moon had a more alarming
effect on the tiny borough than it would have
had on one cursed with lycanthropy.

First came the bonfires, plonked directly
onto the pavement, and no sooner lit than
surrounded by half a dozen ruffianly indi-
viduals, pulling on pints of gin and passing
around pungent cigars. Then, drawn perhaps
by the bonfires’ smoke signals, came the
dandies and the players, and a veritable bri-
gade of ne’er-do-wells, all destined to em-
broil themselves in heavy drinking, illegal
betting, and cardsharping before the night
was out.

388/571
Garrick generally considered himself too
fine a gentleman to frequent the Haymarket
after dusk, but needs must; and if he was to
have the contract on his head lifted, he
would have to visit the king in his broken-
down palace.

By the time he arrived at Rogues’ Walk,
the corner was already six deep in night
owls, with a glut of brawn outside the Hidey-
Hole’s double doors as patrons lined up for a
ringside view of the Battering Rams’ infam-
ous fighting ring, which on any given night
could feature exotic warriors, dogs, roosters,
and even, on one notorious occasion, a dwarf
and an Australian miniature bear.

This is not the time to speak with Otto
Malarkey, Garrick realized. Even a man of
my talents could not hope to penetrate such
an army. But my moment will come.

Garrick was distracted from his task by the
sight of a sometime stooge of his sauntering

389/571
toward the bonfires, then begging nips of gin
from the lowlifes warming their hands.

Lacey Boggs. My West End songbird.
Lacey Boggs’s con was to sing for tipsy
gents after the theater while her accomplice
dipped into their pockets. The dodge had not
been pulling in the revenue it once did after
Lacey passed a summer at Her Majesty’s
pleasure and came out of the clink minus her
teeth and plus a set of wooden dentures.

Garrick took Lacey by the elbow and pro-
pelled her beneath a gas streetlight, so that
her head bonged against the pole.

“Here, what’s all this rough stuff?” she ob-
jected. “I’ll ’ave your hand for a spittoon,
mate.”

The bluster was replaced by terror when
Lacey realized exactly whose hand she had
just threatened.

“Oh, not you, Mr. Garrick. I never meant
you. Be rough all you like, I know there’s no
harm in you.”

390/571
Garrick tightened his grip on Lacey’s el-
bow. “There’s harm in me, Lacey Boggs. Gal-
lons of harm and hurt, a-waiting to be spilled
onto some poor unfortunate.”

Lacey smiled, and Garrick saw that she
had taken to dying her wooden choppers
with lime. “Not me, Mr. Garrick. Ain’t I al-
ways done as asked to the letter? Who was it
that located that French count for you? The
one what was brutally murdered . . .” Lacey’s
eyes went wide and she covered her mouth
with her hand. “I never meant that you had
nothing to do with that. A fine gent like your-
self . . . Coincidence, surely.”

Garrick had no patience for this bleating
woman. “Calm yourself, Lacey. The harm in
me is not for you. I have a job, that’s all. Do
you remember my boy, Riley?”

Lacey’s face muscles relaxed. “Aww. I re-
members him. Cute little beggar with the
wonky eyeballs. Suffers with the nervosity a
bit, I’d say.”

391/571
“That’s him. I need you to find him. Em-
ploy whomever you need. Have old Ernest
send a pigeon to the theater if I cannot be
found.”

Lacey sniffed, as though she could smell a
sovereign. “London is a big place, Mr. Gar-
rick. Three million souls big. Could you give
a girl a clue?”

“I shall be generous. Two clues I have for
you. Firstly, Riley may fly to the Old Nichol,
for he is well aware of the abhorrence I hold
in my heart for that disease pit.”

“And the second?”
“It is possible that he travels with an Injun

maiden. A pretty lass, but dangerous.”

Lacey Boggs clacked her wooden teeth in
rumination. “An Injun in Old Nichol. That
fox will hunt herself, so she will.”

Garrick took a sovereign from his supply.
“There is another sov to go with this if you
are successful. If not, I will be reclaiming this

392/571
one from your dead hand. Do you under-
stand me, wench?”

Lacey Boggs shivered as though suddenly
cold, but one hand flicked from below her
shawl to claim the coin. “I understands. Find
the boy and send word.”

Garrick took her chin in his bony fingers.

“And no gin until the job is done.”

“No gin. Not even a tot.”
“Very well, Lacey,” said Garrick, releasing
his grip on the woman. “Off to Old Nichol
with you. I have business here.”

Lacey rubbed the fingermarks on her chin.
“Is you placing a wager, Mr. Garrick? If so,
think twice, sir. Otto Malarkey always fixes
the odds so he can’t lose.”

Garrick patted his coat and trouser legs,
checking the blades concealed in secret pock-
ets all about his person.

“Even the great King Otto can’t fix these
odds. He has started a fight that he cannot

393/571
win. So if I was you, I would quit this place in
case the blood flows onto the street.”

Lacey Boggs hitched up her petticoats as
though the blood already pooled about her
feet. “I am making myself scarce, sir. I am an
employed woman with a job to do.”

Garrick watched her go, and he knew that
the news of a bounty for Riley would sweep
through the city faster than cholera through
a rookery.

If I know my boy, he will follow the pat-
tern of his previous escape attempts. Riley
will find himself a bolt-hole, with a view to
making a run for it when his trail has
cooled. In this case, he will run for the fu-
ture, and there are only two doors leading
that way. One is in the basement of Half
Moon Street, but I could be there waiting for
him; or I could have simply dismantled the
apparatus, so he will give it a few days, then
make for Bedford Square. And that’s where

394/571
I shall be, just as soon as I have myself a
little chat with Otto Malarkey.

Inside the Hidey-Hole the revelries contin-
ued until the wee hours, when Otto Malarkey
called a halt by abruptly losing his temper, as
he did, regular as clockwork, just before sun-
rise, urging anyone who did not wish to bear
a stripe of his riding crop to find themselves
a hammock out of his sight.

“Except you, Mr. Farley,” he called to the
elderly tattoo artist. “I would have you up-
date my price list as I doze.” It was a testa-
ment to the man’s tolerance for pain that he
intended to sleep while Farley labored over
his chest tattoo.

The enormous room cleared slowly as the
weary shuffled toward their resting places.
Malarkey snagged a bottle of brandy from
the grip of an unconscious sailor on the floor
and staggered to Farley’s corner.

“How now, my faithful artist,” he said,
dropping into the tattoo lounger, which

395/571
creaked alarmingly under his enormous
bulk. “I need you to update my price list. Add
a pound to every service. After all, I am king
now.”

Farley was tired and his fingers were
cramped, yet he knew better than to com-
plain. He provided a valuable service to the
Rams, but Malarkey’s moods were unpre-
dictable and a man would do well not to visit
his dark side.

“One pound it is,” he said, tapping the ink
bottles into a pleasing straight line. “Some
will be straightforward enough; the same as
previous ones won’t need touching. But may
I ’umbly suggest leaving the denomination as
shillings? Then all’s I need to do is diddle
with the numbers a bit. Save a little on the
ink and needles.”

What went unsaid was that Farley’s meth-

od would cut down the needle time.

Malarkey uncorked the bottle with his
teeth and took a long draft. “As you wish,

396/571
Farley. It is of little matter to me, hardy as I
am. Your needle is like a pinprick compared
to the many rapier punctures I suffered on
the prison island of Little Saltee.”

That’s because it is a pinprick, Farley

wanted to say, but he thought better of it.

“Enough blabber, and on with it,” said
Malarkey. “I needs me sleep. Rest is vital for
a shining head of hair. Rest and the touch of
the fleece. That’s what keeps my mane
glossy.”

Malarkey was vain about his hair. It was
his weakness, and too many people knew it,
in Farley’s opinion.

“Rest and the fleece, boss. You see to your
hair and let me work on this chest. When you
wake it will be done.”

Malarkey belched almost contentedly, al-
lowing his muscles to relax, then jumped as
Farley’s needle made its first puncture. It
had been a long time since he’d taken ink,

397/571
and it was a mite more painful than he
remembered.

“Apologies, boss. The sting will ease soon

enough.”

Malarkey relaxed once more. Jumping and
a-twisting was not a wise idea when taking
the ink.

A cove’s T could end up a J.
Farley had spoken true, and soon the
needle pricks faded to a dull buzz. Malarkey
felt his entire chest assume the numbness
that often went with extreme drunkenness.
Within minutes he felt at peace with the
world.

The surrounding hubbub faded, to be re-
placed by loud snoring and the occasional
squeal of night terror from the upper levels.
I love this time of day, thought Malarkey.
He was on the point of slipping away when
he felt the tattooist’s needle slide in uncom-
monly deep, like an icicle perilously close to
his heart. The Ram king’s eyes flew open,

398/571
and one hand raised itself to knuckle Farley
on the crown for his carelessness; but when
he tore the fleece from his head, Malarkey
saw that it was not the decrepit Farley bent
over him but the assassin Albert Garrick, in
full evening wear, including a heavy velvet
cape that rippled in the low light like the fur
of a satisfied panther.

“Have you lost your senses?” Malarkey

shouted.

“Keep your voice down, Malarkey,” said
Garrick, twisting the needle a fraction. “Or
you may startle me into popping your heart
like a rancid bag of pus.”

From his position, Malarkey could not see
the tattooist. “Where is Farley? Have you
murdered the old geezer?” he asked quietly.

“Not murdered,” replied Garrick. “I ether-
ized him is all, and rolled him under the
stairs. I am not an animal.”

“What you are is a dead man, Garrick,”

hissed the king of the Rams.

399/571
Garrick smiled and his teeth were like corn
husks. “I would be a dead man already if you
had had your way. Isn’t that the truth of it,
Your Majesty?”

Malarkey paled slightly as it occurred to
him that if Garrick was here, then his murder
boys were more than likely getting their eye-
balls examined by mud crabs in the Thames.
“It was a contract from a valued customer.

Business is all.”

“I appreciate that,” said Garrick, who had
surmised as much. “But I need to know the
name of this customer whose value out-
weighs the risks of crossing swords with
yours truly.”

“That’s a name you ain’t extracting from
me,” said Malarkey, who had borne terrible
tortures before now.

Garrick sighed, as if it were a tragedy how
people drove him to commit acts that were
against his nature. “Let me tell you a story
before you makes up your mind proper. It is

400/571
the story of Samson and Delilah. Samson
was a great Israelite warrior who laid low all
before him, a little like your good self, Otto.
But then the treacherous Delilah chopped off
his precious hair and drained his power. It’s
a brief story, but I think you get the point.”
With every phrase, Garrick slipped the cold
needle in a whisper further toward Malar-
key’s heart.

Malarkey’s face was drenched with sweat,
but he held firm. “Shave my head then, you
devil. You will get no name from me.”

Garrick expected this resistance from a
man of Malarkey’s reputation, but he had an-
other card up his sleeve.

“Personally I think that whole head-shav-
ing business is a euphemism for stealing the
man’s power, but I know how fond you are of
your gorgeous head of hair, so my threat to
you is that if you do not tell me who put the
black spot on my head, then I will . . .”

401/571
“You will shave my head. This is old news,

Garrick.”

Garrick made a noise that could be de-
scribed as a titter. “No. I will burn your scalp
with my little bottle of acid, so that no hair
will ever grow on your crown again. And
then, in one month, when the men have bel-
lyache from laughing, I will return in the
dead of night and kill you.”

Malarkey’s lip twitched. “That is a power-
ful threat. A man would have to be soft to ig-
nore a threat like that.”

“It makes you think, does it not?”
Malarkey squinted past the brim of Gar-
rick’s top hat, searching for the magician’s
eyes. “Perhaps, I am thinking, Garrick did
not bring his acid, and this whole affair is
bluff.”

“Well, then,” responded Garrick, a sickly
glow emanating from his teeth, “at the very
least you shall die in this chair, and I shall

402/571
tattoo something tasteless on your barrel
chest.”

Malarkey was bent but not broken, and
Garrick realized from his new knowledge of
psychology and interrogation techniques
gleaned from Felix Sharp’s studies that a
proud man must be given an out: a way to
supply the information needed that left him
with some dignity.

“I respect you, Otto. So I have a proposi-
tion for you. I will buy out your contract,
simple as that. Fifty sovereigns in your poke,
right this second, which I’ll wager is more
than you ever had from the instigator. Fifty
sovs and you suspend all operations under-
taken on the word of this man who hired
you. A nice purse for the name of he who
pointed the Rams my way. And I’ll sweeten
the pot. I seek a day’s amnesty only. If I have
not taken care of the problem by sundown,
then you are free to hunt me once more.”

403/571
This was indeed a tempting offer. “We can

murder you tomorrow?”

The teeth glinted again. “You can try, but
three of your top bludgers have already tried,
and I am sorry to say that Mr. Percival and
Co. will not be attending this evening’s
soirée.”

Malarkey thought as much. “Here is my
counterproposal to you, Garrick. I am plan-
ning to close my eyes and sleep. Betimes I
say things in my sleep that I would never say
when in my waking mind. When I rouse my-
self, I expect to find you gone and a purse of
coin stuffed into my paw. What do you think
of that plan?”

Garrick withdrew the needle from Malar-

key’s chest. “Close your eyes and find out.”

Mr. Charismo

GROSVENOR SQUARE. MAYFAIR. LONDON.

1898

Chevie first thought that Riley was anxious
in the carriage, but she quickly realized that
the boy was excited.

“Hey, kid. Are you okay?”
Riley was bobbing up and down in the
brougham’s seat, bumping shoulders with
Jeeves and Noble, who had been tasked with
escorting them.

“Yes, Chevie, I am dandy. Don’t you know

where we are going?”

405/571
Nowhere, thought Chevie glumly. We are
staying right here in Victorian London. I
could
own
up
greatgrandmother.

being

end

my

She looked out of the carriage’s window.
Check your surroundings, Special Agent.
They were somewhere in Piccadilly, per-
haps driving toward Mayfair, judging by the
spruced-up surroundings. The shoals of
urchins had stopped clustering around the
carriage’s rear wheels soon after they had left
the Haymarket, and the number of beggars
on the street had decreased as the number of
bobbies walking the beat increased.

Riley answered his own question. “We are
being sent to Mr. Charismo’s house. The Mr.
Charismo. Surely you must have heard of
him?”

Chevie elbowed Noble, who sat on her left,
for a little more room. “No. I have not heard
of this Charismo guy.”

406/571
“You have not heard of Mr. Tibor Char-
ismo?” said Jeeves, laughing. “Where’ve you
been bunking? In a wigwam?”

“In a wigwam,” repeated Noble, slapping
his knee. “You do occasionally throw up a
good comment, Jeeves.”

Chevie scowled. “So who is this Charismo

person? Somebody famous?”

All three were struck momentarily dumb
by Chevie’s ignorance. Riley was the first to
recover. “Somebody famous? Mr. Charismo
is like Arthur Conan Doyle, H. G. Wells, and
Robert-Houdin all compacted into one indi-
vidual. He is our most illustrious novelist,
composer, and, of course, spiritualist.”

“Sounds like I should have seen this guy

on the History Channel.”

“Queen Vic herself consults Mr. Char-
ismo,” said Noble, touching the brim of his
shabby bowler at
the mention of Her
Majesty.

407/571
“And Gladstone, too, before he popped his

clogs,” added Jeeves.

“You are familiar with the James Bond

series?” asked Riley.

Chevie jerked in her seat. “Er . . . yeah,

actually.”

“The novels featuring Commander James
Bond of Her Majesty’s navy. He is second
only to Holmes himself for exposing villains,
though his methods are a little more direct.”
“The name is Bond. James Bond,” chor-
used Noble and Jeeves, shooting finger pis-
tols into the air.

“And of course Charismo’s symphonies are
world famous,” continued Riley. “Another
Brick in Yonder Wall is my favorite, featur-
ing the crazed lute player Pinkus Floyd.”

Chevie frowned. “Yonder Wall?”
“Yes. And who does not adore the stage

play The Batman of Gotham City?”

Jeeves seemed genuinely scared. “That

Joker character gave me the right willies!”

408/571

James Bond. Pink Floyd. Batman?
Chevie was pretty sure these things should
not exist for decades. Whoever this Charismo
character was, he seemed to know an awful
lot about the future.

So how come the future doesn’t know

about him?

The carriage transported them to higher
ground, and the street noise subsided almost
completely but for the far-off rattle and clang
of an omnibus and the click-clack of genteel
horses pulling plush carriages. If this was not
the richest area of London town, then it was
certainly no more than a stone’s throw away.
Chevie would have been willing to bet that
she and Riley were the only people on this
street wearing manacles. The
carriage
creaked to a halt outside a six-story town
house that would cost untold millions in the
twenty-first century.

409/571
“’Ere we are,” called the driver’s booming
voice from above. “Grosvenor Square. North
side, all ashore wot’s going ashore.”

Before the passengers could disembark, a
small, rotund man came barreling down the
steps and across the footpath, clapping his
hands delightedly. He was
impeccably
dressed in a gold-brocade waistcoat and navy
trousers. But what really caught Chevie’s at-
tention was
the purple jeweled turban
perched on his head.

“Visitors,” he sang. “Visitors today for

Tibor.”

The man leaped nimbly onto the carriage
step and flung the lacquered wooden door
wide.

“Children, welcome,” he said, poking his
head into the doorway. His broad smile
changed to pantomime horror when he saw
the manacles. “But no! This is unspeakable!
Remove these chains from the delicate limbs
of my guests. Tout de suite!”

410/571
Jeeves was somewhere between starstruck
and dutiful. “I dunno, Mr. Charismo. King
Otto told me not to take off the bracelets till
we get inside the house. I adores yer work,
by-theby. Behold the Rooftop Fiddler is the
wife’s absolute favorite.”

Tibor Charismo’s eyes flared, and Chevie
thought she spotted eyeliner. “Inside the
house? You will never set foot in my dwell-
ing. The carpets are from Arabia, for heav-
en’s sake.”

It pained Jeeves to argue with his wife’s
hero, but he knew that Otto was a stickler for
his orders being followed. “Be that as it be,
but orders is orders, sure as the early bird
and so forth.”

Chevie noticed that Charismo was sporting
a molded theater mask that covered the left
side of his face from hairline to cheekbone. It
was cleverly painted to blend in and would
only be noticed close up. Chevie wondered if

411/571
this was a kind of show-business affectation,
like the turban, or did it hide something?

Charismo’s

curled mustache

actually
quivered with rage. “I do not understand
you, sir. Tell Charismo your name.”

Jeeves pressed himself against the carriage
wall. “There’s no call to be looking for a
man’s name when he’s only doing his job.”

“Don’t tell him, Ben,” advised Noble. “He’ll

have the evil eye on you.”

Jeeves actually shrieked.

“You glocky

toad.”

“Aha!” said Charismo. “Benjamin!”
Noble rolled his eyes. “Calm yourself,
there must be dozens of Bens in London. He
don’t know Jeeves, does he?”

Chevie groaned. Stupid criminals were

stupid criminals in any century.

Charismo placed the thumb of his right
hand on a large ruby in his turban, then
pointed the index finger at Jeeves, who at
this point was cowering in the corner.

412/571
“Benjamin Jeeves,” he intoned, and by
some trick of the light his eyes seemed to
glow. “Beeenjamin Jeeeeeeeves.”

And that was all it took. “Look, Mr. Char-
ismo, see,” said Jeeves, fumbling a key from
the band of his tatty hat and getting to work
on Chevie’s handcuffs. “I am removing the
bracelets. No need to look into my future.”

Charismo broke contact with his ruby.

“Very well, uncouth lout. Now free the boy.”

“No need,” said Riley, tossing the cuffs to
Noble. “I took ’em off back on Piccadilly,
while these two were spying on a group of
Oriental ladies.”

“I ain’t never seen one before,” mumbled

Noble guiltily.

Charismo stepped down onto the footpath.
“I shall take delivery of the prisoners, and re-
sponsibility, too. Please inform Mr. Malarkey
that I am delighted with his service and to
await my call on the Farspeak.”

Even the mention of

413/571
the miraculous
Farspeak had the henchmen touching their
brims, as though the machine was royalty.

“We will do that, Mr. Charismo, and thank

you.”

Suddenly Tibor Charismo stiffened and
pressed both forefingers to his temples. “I
am getting something from a year hence. I
see crowds cheering and I hear hooves gal-
loping. Manifesto, the word Manifesto. Does
that
have
you
gentlemen?”

significance

any

to

Noble and Jeeves clutched at each other in
a flurry of excitement. Charismo’s tips were
famous. He was never wrong. A man could
make his
fortune on a tip from Mr.
Charismo.

“Manifesto,” said Jeeves in hushed tones.
“I bet on that beauty last year at Aintree. She
won by twenty lengths. I ate beef for a week.”

414/571
“She’s going to win it again,” said Noble.
“Not a word of this to anyone. No need for
the odds to shorten.”

“No. No need whatsoever. Me and you

only, Noble.”

Charismo clapped his hands briskly. “Gen-
tlemen, our business is done, and I would
feed my guests.”

Jeeves more or less booted Chevie from

the carriage, followed by Riley.

Charismo raised his face to the gigantic
coach driver, who kept a cudgel on the seat
beside him in case of hijack. The driver gave
the impression of someone who had seen
every horror London had to offer and had
probably been responsible for inflicting a
good portion of them. His head was com-
pletely shaved, with a star-shaped scar above
his right ear.

“Barnum, take these two gents wherever
they want to go and then come directly back
here.”

415/571
“Yessir, master,” said the driver, and he

whistled to the horses to move along.

“I know,” said Charismo, as the carriage
rumbled down the avenue. “Master. It’s so
melodramatic, but I get a shiver every time I
hear it. Humble beginnings, you see.”

Chevie rubbed the cuff marks on her wrists
and wondered when her world would make
sense again.

What should I do here? she thought. What
does the FBI handbook say about dealing
with spiritualists in the past?

The pavement seemed hard and gritty be-
neath her feet, and she could smell flowers
from the window boxes in the evening air.

We have been beaten, drugged, dragged,
and beaten some more, she thought. We
need rest.

“Perhaps you are considering flight,” said
Charismo,
linking arms with them both.
“After all, who is this mysterious benefactor
who has pulled you from the frying pan?

416/571
Perhaps only to toss you into the fire, eh? If
that is your decision, then leave now. Char-
ismo will be devastated, as I have prepared
for your coming. A hot bath, fresh linen, soft
pillows, roasted fowl, and beer for the boy,
but, as you wish. I saw you both in my vision,
and I felt that somehow you were special. I
would simply like to talk with you, and per-
haps document something of your story for
my next novel. I was working on a comedy of
errors for the stage entitled The Panther
That Was Pink, but that can wait; I have a
feeling that your story is far more interest-
ing. So, you may stay with me for as long as
you wish, and in return for a few hours of
your time each day, I shall treat you like roy-
alty and perhaps introduce you to some.
What say you?”

What say we? thought Chevie. I have no
idea who this guy is or what is going on here.
The Panther That Was Pink? Riley and I
need a few minutes to talk.

417/571
She turned to consult her young friend,
but he was already halfway up the steps to
the spectacular town house.

“It looks like we are staying,” she said to

Charismo.

The tiny gentleman squeezed her arm.
“Capital. You have no idea how happy that
makes me. We will get you cleaned up and
find you some ladies’ clothing, instead of that
boyish rigout that you were obviously forced
to wear by your abductors.”

Chevie spied two young women stepping
from a nearby carriage wearing enormous
bonnets and a million layers of skirts.

Ladies’ clothing? she thought. Not in this

lifetime.

•••

Chevie was woken by a vertical shaft of sun-
light slicing through a gap in the curtain. She
ignored it
for as long as possible, but

418/571
whichever way she turned her head it
seemed to follow, lighting the inside of her
eyelid. Eventually she summoned the energy
to drag a pillow over her head, and she
would have drifted off to sleep once more
had it had not been for the sheep.
Sheep? Aren’t sheep supposed to help a per-
son go to sleep?

Her subconscious threw up the idea that

she should try to count the sheep.

No, Chevie thought. I am not counting

sheep.

But the mind is its own master, and hers
was soon trying to figure out how many
sheep were in the flock, based on the tones of
their bleatings.

It is amazing how each sheep has its own

little personality, if you really listen.

And this thought finally forced Chevie to
open her eyes. A thought like that could be
enough to get a person kicked out of the

419/571
Bureau if you happened to voice it aloud to
the agency shrink.

“Sheep!” she moaned. “Why are there
sheep in Bedford Square at this time in the
morning?”

Then she sat up and saw that the bed was a
showy brass affair heaped with flounces, rib-
bons, and crocheted cushions, and she re-
membered that she was not
in Bedford
Square anymore.

She sighed. “Not a dream, then. What a

pity.”

Chevie pulled aside the gauze drapes,
climbed out of bed, and padded across a
deep carpet to a purple velvet curtain with
golden ropes and tassels.

Chevie stood in the tall sash window and
looked down on a perfect Victorian mews,
thronged with staff and traders, their in-
dustry hidden from the view of important
people.

420/571
She remembered something Charismo had

told them at dinner the previous night.

The Duke of Westminster, one of my soci-
ety clients, lives nearby in Grosvenor Street,
and I have a Farspeak line running directly
to his office. All I have to do is pick up this
receiver and one of the most powerful men
in Great Britain listens attentively to
whatever I have to say.

Whoever this Charismo guy was, he had all
sorts of clout. Funny that the same guy
would have one line to the Duke of Westmin-
ster and another to Otto Malarkey.

Something caught Chevie’s eye. An elderly
gent was walking down the back lane, tug-
ging four sheep on a string behind him.

Four, thought Chevie. I knew it.
Charismo had ordered a maid to remove
Chevie’s clothing for burning, promising a
selection in the room that would be suitable
for a young lady about town. Chevie checked
the wooden wardrobe and found that in the

421/571
ladies’ half there was room for two dresses
with their voluminous bustles, while the
men’s side held a selection of suits and hunt-
ing wear. Chevie chose a pair of jodhpurs,
probably tailored for a teenage boy, tucked
them into knee-high riding boots, and
topped the lot off with a crisp white shirt.

We need to get out of here, she thought. I
don’t trust this guy: he is being too nice to
us. And he knows far too much about the fu-
ture to be from the past. I do not buy this
spiritualist story for a minute.

She placed her ear to the door and could
from

conversation

of

sounds

hear
downstairs.

No doubt Riley the fan-boy is asking any

question he can think of.

The conversation drifted up to her with the
aroma of coffee and fresh bread. Chevie real-
ized that she was starving, in spite of the
feast Tibor Charismo had served up the pre-
vious night.

422/571
Chicken, guinea fowl, turkey, pheasant.
How many birds can a person eat in one
sitting?

She twisted the painted knob and found

the door locked.

Odd. Why would our supposed benefactor

lock me in?

As far as Chevie was concerned, this was
simply another tick on the evidence sheet
against Charismo.

This guy has some kind of link to the fu-
ture. He is connected to this case, and with
any luck he can show us the way home.

But before she confronted him with her
suspicions, Chevie decided that it would be
wise to snoop around and gather some
evidence.

I’m a federal agent, she thought. Snooping

is what we do best.

The window was also locked, which slowed
Chevie down. She discovered a cushion that
had been embroidered with Charismo’s own

423/571
face and thought of ramming her elbow
through Charismo’s nose to crack the pane
beyond.

But the glass breaking was not a clever
idea. The noise would still be heard in the
mews, and there were people on the flag-
stones in the yard. As soon as she smashed
the window there would be a hundred eyes
on her.

There’s something about this guy Char-
ismo. Either he’s from the future or he
knows someone who is, but it’s not just that.
I have a bad feeling about him. And it’s not
just the circumstantial evidence and that
creepy mask.

Not a hunch; more than that. An un-re-
membered memory. Come on, subconscious;
where are you when I need you? There must
be another way out besides the window.
Chevie spent a minute knocking on the walls,
searching for the secret passage that all
Victorian houses had in the movies, but

424/571
there was no hollow echo, just the flat rap of
solid brick. Then she noticed a silk screen,
again embroidered with Charismo’s face. In
petty annoyance she put the toe of her riding
boot through the screen, only to feel a draft.
It was a fireplace with a driedflower arrange-
ment in the grate.

The chimney. Garrick came down the
I never

chimney in the Garden Hotel.
thought I would steal one of his tricks.

Chevie knelt and poked her head into the
flue. It led to a redbrick chimney. Chevie saw
the bricks were red, even through a scaly
skin of soot, because a splash of light fell
across them from above.

Light, thought Chevie. That means there’s

another fireplace one floor up.

shoulders

She wriggled her

into the
flue—while there was enough space for a
wriggle, there certainly was no room for a
shrug.

I had better not shrug,

425/571
thought
Agent Savano, and twisted herself com-
pletely into the fireplace.

then,

While Chevie was scraping her nose along
the redbrick of a chimney, Riley was being
interviewed in the writing room by society
darling Tibor Charismo. Riley was an ador-
ing fan of Charismo’s work, and Tibor
seemed extremely satisfied to take this as the
starting point of their relationship.

They sat at an extraordinary mahogany
writing desk fashioned in the shape of a styl-
ized gryphon, with a lion’s body and the head
of an eagle, covered in gold leaf, protruding
from one side. The lion’s flat back was up-
holstered in pale orange leather, with cubby-
holes for bottles, pens, and blotter.

And even though Riley had visited the
twenty-first century, he believed this desk to
be the most fantastic single object he had
ever seen.

426/571
“You are admiring my desk, I see,” said
Charismo. On this morning he wore an old-
fashioned powdered wig over his dark curls,
his mask was painted in garish orange and
red to give him a slightly demonic appear-
ance, and his dressing gown was quilted silk
with a lush fur collar.

“Yes, sir,” said Riley. “It’s the most beauti-

ful thing I have ever seen.”

Charismo drummed his fingers on the
wood. “A gift from the tsar of Russia. I baked
a poultice for a boil on his nose, if you can
credit that. The offending blemish was re-
duced in circumference by more than sixty
percent. Alexander was most grateful.”

Riley’s jaw dropped. “You are a doctor,

too?”

“I have no formal qualifications,” said
Charismo, in a way that suggested formal
qualifications were a waste of a gentleman’s
time. “I am connected with the spirit world,
which is composed of the sum of human

427/571
experience, past, present, and future. The
spirits communicate with me in my dreams.
They whisper to me of words and music, but
also of future events. Wars, catastrophes.
Plague and famine. It is a terrible burden.”
Charismo rested his weary, tortured brow on
his knuckles. “No one can ever comprehend
the cross I bear.”

Riley dared to pat his hero’s elbow. “Sher-
lock Holmes said, ‘Genius is an infinite capa-
city for taking pains.’ And surely, sir, you are
the greatest genius who ever lived.”

Charismo smiled a touch sadly. “Dear boy.
Yes, perhaps I am. And how pleasant it is to
have the fact acknowledged. You truly are a
perceptive young fellow.”

Charismo dabbed a lace kerchief near his
right eye. “Perceptive and mannerly. You
have no doubt noticed my various masks and
yet made no comment.” Tibor Charismo
tapped the smooth plaster of the mask mol-
ded to the left side of his face. “This

428/571
particular model is a Japanese Noh mask
representing the devil.” He giggled. “I wear it
for séances. A little melodramatic, I know,
but it gives the ladies such a naughty thrill.”
He paused, his mouth drooping in long-suf-
fering sadness. “I know what they say, those
so-called gentlemen of the press. Charismo
hides his warts. Or Tibor Charismo cultivates
mystery because he is a sham. But the truth
is, I wear these masks to hide a terrible dis-
figurement. A birthmark that was the subject
of so much childhood ridicule that I cannot
bear to expose it now. Even at night I wear a
silken veil.” Tibor banged his fist on the
desk. “Why must Tibor endure this curse?”
he shouted to the heavens, and then, “Oh,
look. Tea!”

Barnum, the enormous driver, was also a
butler. He now entered, squashed into a uni-
form and pushing a trolley heaped with
cakes and hot drinks.

429/571
“I know how you young scamps enjoy your

treats,” said Tibor, filling a plate for Riley.

“Oh, no, sir,” objected Riley, his stomach
to bursting after a glutton’s

already full
breakfast. “I’m not used to such rich food.”

“Nonsense,” proclaimed Charismo. “You
must sample les macarons. My chef
is
French, and they are his speciality. Though I
have been credited with inventing the differ-
ent flavors. A tip from the spirits.”

“Perhaps just one,” said Riley, selecting a

small cake.

Charismo filled his own china plate and
ate for several minutes with concentration
and enjoyment, growling low in his throat
with each mouthful. Eventually he sat back
and belched into his handkerchief with such
force that the material fluttered.

“Now, what was our topic? Ah, yes, the tri-
als of Tibor, but enough of that. You will
think me a terrible boor. We are here to talk
about you. The spirits assure me that you

430/571
have had a fascinating life. Let us start with
those unusual eyes.” Charismo placed a fin-
ger to his temple. “The spirits inform me that
this condition is known as anisocoria, and it
is usually the result of trauma, but it can also
be inherited.” Tibor leaned forward, sud-
denly paying very close attention. “Can you
remember, my dear boy?” he asked, flecks of
sugar on his lips. “Can you remember your
parents? Did they have anisocoria?”

Riley sipped his tea. “I do not know for
certain, sir. Sometimes I have dreams, or vis-
ions. I was young when my parents died . . .
were murdered, actually. By a man named
Garrick. Now he’s on my trail.”

Charismo stuffed his kerchief

in his
mouth. “Quelle horreur! Murdered, you say.
But this is terrible, awful.” He patted Riley’s
knee. “You are safe here, my boy.”

Riley placed his cup on its saucer, tracing
the pattern of dancing girls on the china with
his index finger. “I can’t stay long, sir. You

431/571
have been wonderful to grant us shelter, but
Garrick will find me, and then you would be
in danger. My conscience could not bear that
responsibility.”

Charismo harrumphed. “With your leave,
this Garrick

I shall worry about

Riley,
individual.”

Riley’s scratched the scab on his shoulder,
though the tattooist Farley had warned him
against this. “Everyone says that, sir. Then
Garrick kills them.”

“Shall we make a gentlemen’s agreement?”
asked Charismo. “We will have our little talk
and I shall take my silly notes, and then I will
set all the resources at my disposal, which
are considerable and include Otto Malarkey
and his stooges, a-looking for your Garrick.
How does that sound?”
Riley forced a smile.
“Capital,” he said, resolving that he and

Chevie must be away before nightfall.

first

Chevie’s

432/571
thought upon emerging
through the fireplace into the chamber dir-
ectly above her bedroom was that perhaps
she should not have worn a white shirt.

I am not having much luck with clothes
these days, she thought, and then, These
days? What does that even mean anymore?

The climb had been difficult, but far from
impossible for someone whose first month in
training had included a half-mile crawl along
a disused latrine drain, with barbed wire
overhead and a permanently disgruntled FBI
instructor above the wire. Her only worry in
the chimney had been that she would lose
her purchase on the mortar between the
bricks and slide down to the cellar.

Chevie climbed over the grate’s brass rail-
ing, then stood upright, grateful to have
space on every side—she had been about two
minutes
developing
claustrophobia.

away

from

433/571
She looked around. This room was three
times the size of hers and infinitely more lux-
urious. The bed was the size of a trampoline
and seemed to be built on a nautical theme,
with posts designed to look like masts and
drapes rigged like sails. Blue-and-white-
striped cushions were heaped in a mountain
in the center, and what looked like a veil was
tied to a brass hook on the headboard. Chev-
ie counted over a dozen gas jets on the walls,
as well as four electric lamps. One of Char-
ismo’s Farspeak devices stood on a marble-
topped bedside table and another on the roll-
top writing desk. Gold-framed pictures lined
the walls, and all depicted Charismo. Some
were seated portraits, but others docu-
mented his extraordinary career. Here he
was onstage with Robert Louis Stevenson in
Covent Garden, and there was Tibor present-
ing a leather-bound book to Queen Victoria
herself. By the window was a framed cover of
Harper’s Magazine, split by a Union Jack

434/571
ribbon into two halves, the left depicting
Charismo speaking into his Farspeak device,
the right showing an amazed mother with
her petticoated daughters listening raptly to
the receiver.

Chevie looked around for anything that
might justify her nagging suspicions about
Tibor Charismo. She knew in her gut that
something was wrong. Her instincts had
served her well when she’d been undercover
in Los Angeles.

I knew those guys were clean, and I just
know that Tibor Charismo is dirty. I need to
find the connection. There were only two
men from the future hiding back here. One
was Riley’s father, an FBI agent, and the
other was the man he was guarding.

Charismo’s collection of half-masks was
displayed on a board on the wall, each
dangling from a dedicated brass hook.

435/571
This guy sure likes his masks, Chevie
thought, tapping a mask that looked like sol-
id gold but was actually painted plaster.

Nothing is as it seems.
Almost unconsciously, she began hum-
ming the intro of a song that her father had
played over and over again on his beatup
turntable: Eric Clapton, “Behind the Mask.”

Now this is real music, squirt, her dad
said every single time he dropped the needle
on the record.

Behind the mask. I wonder what is behind

the mask.

There was a crack in the display board
running right down the center. No, not a
crack—a gap, because the board was actually
a set of doors.

Where is the handle?
There was no handle, so Chevie put a fin-
ger against each door and pressed. The doors
gave slightly and then swung open to reveal a
recessed cupboard and bulletin board. There

436/571
were line drawings pinned to the board and
an assortment of objects placed on the shelf.
Calm down, she cautioned herself. And

don’t miss a thing.

“Oh, my God,” she said aloud, surprised
that her suspicions had proved to be spot on.
“I’ve got you now, Tibor.”

What a fancy name he’s given himself,

Chevie thought. Much fancier than Terry.

Suddenly she heard the rapid footfalls of a

big person jogging up a nearby set of stairs.

I need proof for Riley.
Chevie snatched two small objects: a glit-
tering ring from its velvet cushion, and the
second to get her home again. She was back
in the chimney before the masks stopped
rocking on their hooks.

Inside the chimney, Chevie plotted her

next move.

I need to get Riley alone and show him
what I found. I hate to destroy his hero, but

437/571
Charismo is not quite as gifted as he pre-
tends to be.

She inched down the shaft toward the light

below. The light. My room.

No one entered the chamber above. The
footsteps she’d heard had been a false alarm.
Still, it would be foolhardy to go back up. She
should count herself lucky that she’d escaped
detection this time.

Chevie imagined her Quantico instructor
screaming abuse in her ear, and this motiv-
ated her to descend a little faster. In three
minutes flat her boots were sticking out of
the fireplace in her bedroom.

She twisted onto her stomach and pushed
herself into the room, once again feeling that
immense sense of relief at being free from
confinement.

I made it , she thought.
A voice above her said, “Well, well, well.
What do we have here, a-droppin’ down the

438/571
chimney? One of Father Christmas’s elves,
perhaps?”

If that voice belongs to Barnum, the hu-
mongous coach driver, then I am in trouble,
thought Chevie.

It did, and she was.
Albert Garrick always felt a little jittery
passing through Mayfair. In spite of his
dandy getup and his long hair, a style af-
fected by many a lordling, he had the nag-
ging idea that his humble origins somehow
shone through his eyes for all to see.

In spite of everything I know, everything I
have seen, I cannot make myself comfort-
able on these streets.

He tried to bolster his own confidence with
an inner pep talk: Buck yourself up, Alby.
You are no longer a starving urchin comb-
ing the cobbles for the scraps from a rich
man’s table. Time to scrape that shame off
your soul like dog filth from the toe of your
boot.

439/571
A flower girl actually curtsied as she ap-
proached. “A carnation for your buttonhole,
m’lord.”

This simple greeting raised Garrick’s spir-
its more than his own strictures ever could,
and he smiled with more sincerity than he
had in some time. He reached behind the
girl’s ear and found a shiny sovereign.

“This is for you, my dear. Buy something

that is as pretty as yourself.”

The maid stammered a thank-you, then
stood a-staring at the currency in her hand
as though it would melt.

Garrick continued down the north side of
Grosvenor Square toward the residence of
Tibor Charismo, the man who had hired Otto
Malarkey to kill him.

There was a well-tended private park op-
posite Charismo’s famous dwelling, reserved
for residents only and accessible by a heavy,
locked gate. Armed with his magician’s tools,
Garrick was no more troubled by the gate

440/571
than a dog would be by a keep off the grass
sign. In seconds he was reclining on a clean,
varnished bench, admiring the Himalayan
rhododendrons, and keeping a close eye over
their bobbing heads on the fabulous Char-
ismo residence.

So, now Tibor Charismo wishes me dead,

as he once did Riley’s family.

For it had been Tibor Charismo who had
contracted Albert Garrick over a decade ago
to dispose of Riley’s entire family in their
Brighton residence. And now, all this time
later, he had obviously discovered Garrick’s
deception and decided to settle the affair
with some finality.

Could that be the entirety of it? Charismo
would pit himself against me over the life of
a boy?

Garrick thought that if the situation al-
lowed, he would put this question to Char-
ismo before he killed him.

441/571
There was some movement in a window.
Garrick’s rejuvenated eyes had no difficulty
recognizing the figure, even from this great
distance.

Charismo.
Garrick sat up as though the bench had

been electrified.

So, my nemesis is at home today. That

makes my job easier.

He was suddenly glad that he had tipped

the young flower girl so heavily.

You see, Albert. It is like Felix Smart’s
mother always said: If you do nice things,
then nice things will happen to you.

Inside the house on Grosvenor Square,
Tibor Charismo was treating himself to yet
another macaron while the barbiturates he
had mixed into Riley’s tea took hold of the
lad’s brain. The sweet delights of the belly
had always been Riley’s weakness.

Once the boy’s eyes had glazed and his
arms hung limply by his sides, Charismo

442/571
began his questioning in earnest, revealing
the true motives for his kindness.

“Now, Riley, let me explain what is hap-
pening. I have given you a blend of barbitur-
ates that I cooked up myself. A truth serum.
You could try to fight it, but you would
simply damage your brain, so it would be far
better for your mental health if you answered
all my
you
understand?”

truthfully. Do

questions

“Yesh,” said Riley, around a fat tongue. He
felt drunk and compressed by the weight of
air above him.

Charismo clapped his hands. “Excellent.
Now, first question: Did you come through
the wormhole, or were you just squatting in
the house on Half Moon Street?”

It did not seem strange to Riley then that
Charismo should know about the wormhole.
Perhaps the spirits had told him?

“Wormhole,” he slurred. “From future.”

443/571
Charismo frowned. “I imagine you some-
how were pulled into the time tunnel on Bed-
ford Square, then returned through Half
Moon Street, correct?”

“Yesh. Pulled and returned. Future smells

lovely.”

“And Miss Savano—what is that sweet

girl’s part in this affair?”

Riley closed his eyes and smiled. “She is

FBI. Special agent pretty.”

Charismo stood, wringing his hanky like a
turkey’s neck. “FBI? F . . . B . . . blooming . . .
I.”

“Like my old dad. FBI. I saw his shield.”
“Like your old dad?” said Charismo slowly,
allowing the words to sink in, confirming his
suspicions. “Of course. I heard Garrick had a
boy. But I didn’t know you were that boy.”
He steered his mind back to Chevie.

“Has she come for me?”
“For you, sir? Oh, no. We simply flee from
Garrick. He wants the Timekey. It’s the last

444/571
one for this wormhole. Or it was the last one,
till Otto Malarkey pulverized it.”

“The last one,” breathed Charismo, relax-
ing considerably. “Well, then, I am safe. Gar-
rick should be deceased already, and even if
he isn’t, he will have no inkling that I have
another key.”

“That’s wrong, sir.”
Charismo flapped his kerchief, irritated.

“What’s wrong, boy?”

“Garrick is not deceased. Everyone makes

that mistake.”

“Not Tibor Charismo,” said Tibor Char-
ismo. “I have taken care of Albert Garrick.
He crossed me once, but never again.”

Tibor popped the final macaron into his
mouth and hummed while he chewed.
“That’s the chorus of a new song I am craft-
ing entitled ‘We All Live in a Yellow Submar-
ine,’ which I won’t be able to release until
submarines become commonplace.”

445/571
The door burst open and the manservant
Barnum entered, dragging Chevie behind
him. She was bound fast with coils of rope,
but still struggling.

“What ho!”

said Charismo.

“This

is

unexpected.”

“I found ’er in the chimney,” said Barnum,
tossing Chevie to the floor at Charismo’s feet.
“Unexpected?” said Chevie, cheek burned

by the carpet. “Didn’t the spirits warn you?”

Charismo poked Chevie’s shoulder with
the tip of his pointed slipper so that she lay
on her back. “That is not how it works”—he
placed a finger to his temple—“Agent Savano
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.”

Chevie sneered. “Hey, why don’t you ask
those spirits if they can tell you anything
about Terry Carter, a crooked banker from
New York City?”

Charismo shrieked at

the mention of
Carter’s name, then kicked Chevie in the
stomach, driving the air from her lungs.

446/571
“Put her on the chair,” he ordered
Barnum, sitting down to rub his toe. “Then
leave us.”

Barnum’s hands were quick to the job, but
his brow was puzzled. “Leave you, master?
But this gal has strange maneuvering in her,
and you are not yourself entirely, throwing
kickings and such.”

“She is tied, is she not?” said Charismo ir-
ritably. “Do as you are told, but wait outside
the door. There will be some lifting before
long.”

Barnum threw Chevie a threatening look
and left the room, muttering about how a
man never knew where he was, and a little
manners would not go astray.

“Apologies,” said Charismo. “Sometimes

Barnum forgets his place.”

Chevie jerked herself upright in the chair.
“Nice desk. Who gave you that? The spirits of
cheap and vulgar?”

447/571
“I shall not be manipulated to anger,” said
Charismo. “The great Charismo rises above
base emotions.”

“How about Terry Carter? What does he

do?”

Charismo toyed with a letter opener in the
shape of a dagger. Or perhaps it was a dagger
in the shape of a dagger. “Terry Carter is
dead. He died almost thirty years ago, when I
arrived here.”

Chevie noticed that Riley was not reacting
to any of this and seemed to be humming a
Beatles song.

“What did you do to the boy?”
Charismo waved his fingers as if to say
Hardly anything. “Oh, him. I gave him a few
drops of sodium thiopental and a little
deadly nightshade. I favor it as a mix. You
speak the truth and then die. Don’t worry
about the lad. Riley will drop off to sleep and
never wake up, which is about the best way

448/571
to go in Victorian London. You’re going to
adore it.”

Chevie struggled against her bonds, but
they had been tied by a man who tied things
up as part of his job description.

“The great Tibor Charismo. You’re nothing

but a common murderer.”

Charismo seemed genuinely offended.
“No. Absolutely not. I am the greatest human
being since Leonardo da Vinci, whom I sus-
pect may also have been a WARP veteran. I
write, I compose, I see. In the twentieth cen-
tury I was nothing, a Mob banker. Here, I am
the darling of high society. Why on God’s
green earth would I ever go back?”

“I see how it could happen,” said Chevie.
“You knew the Mob would track little Terry
down eventually. No matter how many of
them you put away with your testimony,
there would always be more wiseguys. But in
Victorian London, you could really be
somebody.”

449/571
“Exactly,” said Charismo. “And do you
know how? I have a photographic memory.
Everything I ever read, saw, or even heard, I
remember forever. Simple as that.”

“Genius,” said Chevie, half meaning it.
Charismo rose to his feet. “Queen Victoria
herself listens to my advice. As soon as the
Feds told me I was moving to Victorian Lon-
don, I read everything I could about any sub-
ject I thought might be useful. I know things
about world politics, sporting events, simple
inventions, fashion trends. It’s a gold mine.”
Chevie took a few breaths to calm herself.
“Okay, Terry, listen to me. Just let us go.
Give the kid an antidote. Don’t become a
murderer on top of everything else.”

“Become a murderer?” said Charismo
laughing. “This is Victorian London. Even
with my gifts, you have to carve your way to
the top, or hire a big strong Barnum to do it
for you. When I found Barnum, he was

450/571
bleeding to death in Newgate prison; now he
is loyal to me unto the grave.”

“Really?”
“No. I hired him in the pub, but I plan to

use the Newgate story in my memoirs.”

“You don’t have to kill the boy, Charismo.

I’m the law here. He’s just a kid.”

Charismo smiled, perching on the edge of
the desk. “Oh, he’s the one I need to kill most
of all. You still haven’t put it together fully,
Agent, have you?”

“Oh, I think I understand most of it,” said
Chevie. “It’s a pretty basic tale of human
greed. Little Terry Carter decides he likes it
in the Victorian era and so hires Albert Gar-
rick to cut any ties to the future, specifically
Agent Riley and his family.”

Charismo showed no remorse. “That was
not my fault. Bill Riley was not supposed to
marry anyone. I was meant to be his priority;
but, no—Agent Riley decides to fall in love,

451/571
so I had no alternative but to unleash Gar-
rick on his entire family. No loose ends.”

Chevie looked at him. “But you needed Bill

Riley’s Timekey?”

“Yes, indeed,” said Charismo. “Garrick de-
livered it to me without ever suspecting what
it was. How could he? All programmed and
ready to suck Bill back to the twentieth cen-
tury—the twenty-first now, I suppose. I have
it secured safely, just in case I need to escape
this time zone. There will always be medical
procedures—chemotherapy,
for example—
that I may need to avail myself of. That is the
only reason I have not disassembled the
portals. Of course, I only recently found out
where the portals were.”

“Well, poor

little Mob banker Terry
wouldn’t be told the locations. Information
like that would be strictly need-to-know.”

“Precisely. On the night I arrived, they
hustled me out of there with a sack over my
head. Can you believe it? In my condition?”

452/571
When he said the word condition, Char-
ismo touched his mask lightly, and Chevie
wondered again what precisely was under
there.

“So, even with Agent Riley out of the way,
you still needed to find Charles Smart and
whatever portals there might be; otherwise
you could never be sure that they wouldn’t
come after you.”

“The alternative was keeping a low pro-
file,” explained Charismo. “And what was the
point in doing that?”

“Yeah,” said Chevie. “Why be a nobody in

two centuries?”

“You’re doing awfully well so far,” said
Charismo coldly, adjusting his devil’s mask.
“Would you like to continue? Or should I kill
you now?”

“It takes a while to build up your funds,
but as soon as you can afford it you cultivate
a relationship with Otto Malarkey, because
only the Battering Rams have the network

453/571
you need to find Charles Smart and the
portals.”

“All I had was a sketch of Smart, which I
drew from memory, and a description of a
basement with a bed mounted on a metal
plate. Not much to go on.”

Chevie took over the narrative. “It took
years, but eventually the Rams found that
Smart was actually living in this century in
Bedford Square. And they followed him to
Half Moon Street.”

“I kept him under surveillance, as you
Feds might say, until I was satisfied that
Smart was the only one using the portals. No
one was looking for him or coming for me.”

“And you wanted to keep it that way. You
wanted sole control of the wormhole, so
Charles Smart had to go. And that’s when
you contacted Garrick again, to finish the job
he began a decade ago.”

“Yes. After all, my freedom to evolve was

at stake.”

454/571
Charismo leaned forward and parted
Chevie’s hair with his letter opener. “I had
forgotten how much effort it is speaking with
my fellow Americans. So confrontational.”
“You made one mistake, Terry,” said Chevie.
“Oh, I don’t think so. After all, you are

prostrate before me, as is the entire city.”

“Garrick. You should never have hired

him. He can’t be controlled.”

Charismo covered his smug smile with a
kerchief. “Believe me, Garrick has been con-
trolled into an early grave. Otto Malarkey
has seen to that. He was the last direct con-
nection between me and the future.”

“Until we came along.”
“Otto was supposed to kill anyone who ar-
rived at either portal, but it is in his nature to
try to squeeze a few extra sovereigns from
every situation. Luckily I have a man in the
Rams who is loyal to my gold, and he in-
formed me there was activity in the Half
Moon house. Can you imagine my surprise

455/571
when one of the fugitives from Half Moon
Street bore a striking resemblance to William
Riley? It must be a coincidence, I told my-
self, and I almost believed it, until the boy
himself revealed to me that his father was an
FBI agent. So young Riley here is the only
wild card in this game, and he is, as you can
see, not really playing anymore.”

Charismo

clapped his hands, which
seemed to be something of a trademark.
“And so, the game is over, and Charismo has
triumphed.”

Riley moaned and spasmed in his chair.
“Come on, Carter!” said Chevie. “Cure the
boy! Let him go. What harm can he do to
you?”

“None whatsoever. Little Riley is harmless.
a permanent

And soon that will be
condition.”

Chevie’s pulse pounded in her forehead.
“That boy idolized you, and you’ve killed
him.”

456/571
Charismo fluttered his kerchief. “Well, you
know what they say? A person should never
meet his heroes. And I haven’t killed him yet,
he’s simply dreaming. The poison is still in
his stomach. He won’t die for hours.”

Riley was half-dreaming, and he would
have loved to lose himself entirely to slum-
ber, but something was glinting in his eye.
The boy squinted, attempting to focus, but
he could see nothing, except the small shin-
ing object on Chevie’s finger. It was blurred
and surrounded by a golden nimbus, until
Charismo moved in front of the window and
blocked the sunlight, bringing the golden ob-
ject into relief.

It was a horseshoe ring.
A horseshoe ring. There was a man with a

horseshoe ring. Mr. Carter.

In his dream state Riley was closer to his
visions; he remembered that his father had
protected the man wearing this ring, and this
was enough to wake him slightly, just in time

457/571
to hear Charismo say, “That was not my
fault. Bill Riley was not supposed to marry. I
ordered Garrick to kill Agent Riley and his
precious family, no loose ends.”

Bill Riley, thought Riley groggily. My dad.
Riley could not fathom the circumstances,
but he had heard a confession, and the ring
made him believe it was the truth.

With superhuman effort, he breathed him-
self back to the surface of consciousness. It
took several moments, but finally he had the
energy to act. Riley dragged himself from the
chair and flailed at Charismo, striking out
clumsily.

“Oh, please,” tutted Charismo. “This is em-
barrassing. I am embarrassed for both of
you, really.”

He placed a hand on Riley’s forehead and
tipped him over backward. Riley fell awk-
wardly, knocking over a marble-topped table
and sending the Farspeak skittering to the
end of its wire.

458/571
“Now look what you have done!” said Cha-

rismo, mildly irritated.

“You animal!” shouted Chevie,

lurching
from the chair; but she was well trussed and
succeeded only in toppling herself onto the
floor, cracking her head on a gryphon wing
on the way down.

Charismo rolled his eyes. “Oh, now look,
there is blood on Tibor’s special desk. I shall
be exceedingly glad when you are dead, Miss
Savano. I had hoped to interrogate you as I
did the boy, perhaps learn how the world has
turned since my day, but now I think I shall
forgo that pleasure and proceed directly to
the endgame.”

Chevie spat blood on the rug. “What about
your queen? How would she feel about all
these murders?”

“Old Vic?” said Charismo. “I do not care a
fig for Her rheumatic Majesty, beyond the
fact that her patronage secures my status. At
any rate, she will die confused at the dawn of

459/571
the new century, and her daughter the fol-
lowing year, which will ring the closing bell
on the house of Hanover.”

“And what of your precious Duke of

Westminster?”

Charismo laughed bitterly. “That old coot
will be gone before Christmas. Would that he
should survive another twenty years, as it is
extremely convenient to have the ear of the
richest man in Britain. But no, the outdoor
life will sow the seeds of bronchitis, and that
shall do the duffer in.”

Charismo knelt and tousled Chevie’s hair.
“Do you know, I would have preferred to
have kept you alive. We could have spoken of
the future. I have so many plans. One, for ex-
ample, is that I could change the course of
wars. Imagine how different World War One
would be if the Germans were warned not to
torpedo the Lusitania. America would never
enter the war, and by 1918 England would be
a German colony, with Tibor Charismo very

460/571
nicely placed in its court. That is just one of
my many ideas.”

“You’re mad,” said Chevie, trying hard to

keep Charismo’s attention on her.

“Mad, delusional, comatose. Who cares? I
am happy, and I intend to remain happy for
as long as possible.”

Charismo dinged a service bell on his desk
and Barnum entered, still a little sulky from
his recent dismissal.

“Oh, you wants me back in the room, does

you, master?”

“Don’t be petulant, Barnum. Your boxer’s

countenance does not suit the expression.”

“Very good, master. What’s the drill with
these two? I was thinking a quick stab over
the kitchen sink, for to catch the blood, then
into a
sack and roly-poly down the
embankment.”

Charismo tick-tocked his letter opener,
considering this. “No, Barnum. I want these

461/571
two to disappear entirely. Not so much as a
hair left.”

“Then there are two avenues we can ad-
vance along. One, I has an old army pal with
a pig farm by Newport. Pigs will eat from
crown to toe, brain and bone, makes no dif-
fer to a pig.”

“I think not,” said Charismo. “The last
time you tramped pig dung all over my car-
pets. What is our second choice?”

“Burning,” said Barnum simply. “I chop
’em in the kitchen and feed ’em slow into the
furnace. Takes a few days and is grisly labor,
but once the job is done, all the king’s horses
couldn’t put these two bad eggs together
again.”

giggled.

“Nicely

Charismo

put, Mr.
Barnum. You do make me smile. The furnace
it is, but do your stabbing business in the
kitchen.”

“Very good, master,” said Barnum, and he
slung Chevie over one shoulder. “Can you

462/571
manage for an hour while I make a start on
the butchering?”

“You go ahead,” said Charismo magnanim-
ously. “I shall be perfectly fine. . . . Oh, per-
haps you might bring some more cakes when
you have finished cutting. Tibor is peckish.”

“More cakes. Of course, master.”
Charismo winked at Chevie. “Master. I get

shivers, every time.”

To Tibor’s utter surprise, Chevie had
enough spirit for one last comment. She
looked the WARP witness directly in the eye
and said, “You talk too much.”

A statement not just of opinion but of fact,

as it would turn out.

Barnum swung Riley by the belt in an arc
toward his other shoulder. However, as soon
as the manservant’s hand was free,
the
poisoned boy somehow found the strength to
roll off and land on Charismo’s chest.

“Murderer!” he slurred. “You killed my

family.”

463/571
“Eeek!” said Charismo. “Get him off me,

Barnum. He could have lice.”

Had Riley been more alert, he might have
been able to land a painful or even fatal
blow, but in his drugged state it was all he
could do to squirm a little and pat Char-
ismo’s chest like an infant.

“C’mere, boy,” said Barnum, and he re-
claimed his prisoner with strong fingers,
tossing him back onto his free shoulder.

“Take care, Barnum,” said a shaken Char-
ismo, checking his mask. “Even a dying dog
can be dangerous.”

“Sorry, master,” said Barnum,

inserting
the toe of his boot into a crack in the door
and nudging it open. “I should have taken
more care that you were not overpowered by
the incapacitated child that you had just
poisoned to death.”

Charismo glared after his manservant as
he left, wondering if perhaps he should begin
docking his wages for insolence.

464/571
Barnum bundled the condemned pair into
the dumbwaiter in the adjoining room and
winched them down toward the kitchen. As
the elevator dropped into its shaft, Chevie
heard Charismo’s voice drift through: “You
are such a slacker, Barnum. The dumb-
waiter, honestly.”

The small compartment creaked slowly to-
ward the basement, and Riley moaned and
tried to stretch, which was impossible in the
confined space. The air was heated, the walls
stank of meat, and the box seemed incapable
of sustaining their weight. Though she could
not see it, Chevie felt the shaft yawn below
them, waiting for the box to pop its cord and
drop down and down.

“Hey, Riley,” Chevie said, nudging the

boy’s leg with her elbow. “Are you okay?”

Riley was not alert enough to reply.
I wonder, has the poison begun to do it
work? No. Charismo said he had hours left.
There is still time.

465/571
The dumbwaiter came to an abrupt halt,
and the trapped pair could do nothing but
breathe recycled air and wait until Barnum
pulled them out. Chevie was first.

He tossed her on the wooden worktop like
a side of beef, then tied on an apron and ran
his fingers across a row of kitchen knives.

It’s funny, thought Chevie. I am not afraid.
That is because I still believe we will get out
of this alive, in spite of all the evidence.

Barnum selected the largest knife, with a

stained bone handle and serrated blade.

“Ah, Julia,” he said to the knife. “You knew

I would choose you.”

He talks to his knives, thought Chevie. I

bet Garrick would love this guy.

Barnum froze suddenly, like a deer that

has heard a sound not meant for the forest.

What does he hear?
Then Chevie heard it too: a trundle of car-

riages, but also the clatter of marching feet.

466/571
“What now?” said Barnum, then cocked
his head, waiting for the commotion to
rumble past. But it did not. Instead, the
cavalcade came to an abrupt stop outside
Charismo’s residence.

“Next door,” muttered Barnum to himself.
“Surely the militia have business next door?”
But it was not next door, as was made
abundantly clear by a barked command from
outside: “Halt! Charismo residence, blue
door! Ready the cannon.”

“Cannon?” said Barnum, in a voice that
was surely two octaves above his usual
register.

The manservant dropped his beloved
blade, drew a revolver from inside his coat,
and raced across the kitchen and through the
service doors.

The doors had not yet finished flapping
when a thundering explosion rattled the very
channeling compressed air
foundations,
through
and

stairwells

the

house’s

467/571
passageways. The blast threw Barnum and
his gun back through the service doors. The
six-shooter pinwheeled across the kitchen,
shattering a wall tile with its butt, then
skittered into a sink.

Barnum himself was not in good shape.
His waistcoat had been shredded, and a hun-
dred small wounds on his chest allowed his
life’s blood to leak onto the wooden floor.

Barnum had seen enough of death to know
that his number was up. He turned his gaze
laboriously to where Chevie lay on the
worktop.

He attempted to speak, but before he
could get it out, a final rattle signaled his de-
parture for the next world.

Chevie rolled herself from the worktop,
landing with a thump on her shoulder, which
did not break.

Lucky break, or lucky non-break.
Barnum’s battered face was two inches
from hers on the cold floor, and his blank

468/571
stare motivated her to keep moving in spite
of the pain in her shoulder.

Find the knife, she urged herself. Find

Julia.

It was not far away, jutting from between
the floorboards,
like Excalibur from the
stone. Embedded where Barnum had
dropped it.

Another stroke of luck, Chevie thought.
She wriggled like a snake toward the knife.
Come on, Julia. I hope you’re sharp.
She was. Once Chevie got a palm on either
side of the knife,
it took seconds to saw
through the rope securing her wrists and,
with her hands free, the rest of her bonds
could be sliced off easily.

Overhead was regimented chaos. Chevie
could hear the battle roar of a dozen troops
as
they stampeded through the house,
searching for Charismo. Their tread knocked
dust from the fractured ceiling, and one gas
jet on the wall
seemed to catch fire

469/571
spontaneously, shooting a blue flame across
the kitchen.

We need to get out of here,

thought

Chevie.

She heard footsteps split off from the oth-

ers and descend the steps to the kitchen.

Chevie grabbed Barnum’s gun from the
sink and squashed herself inside the dumb-
waiter next to Riley, back into the oppressive
heat and stale food stink, closing the hatch
behind her.

Through a crack she saw a soldier’s black
boots and pants push through the door. He
strode briskly around the room,
turning
quickly as he looked behind the table and
chairs. He paused over Barnum’s corpse,
checking that the giant had indeed passed
on.

Riley moaned in his half-conscious state,
and Chevie stuffed her knee in his mouth,
stifling whatever noise he might make next.

470/571
Luckily for the concealed pair, the soldier
was still a little battle-deaf from the cannon’s
roar, and he missed the muffled sound.

“Big,” he said, loudly, nudging Barnum’s
corpse with his toe. “Big, big.” Then he
snapped to and exited the room.

Chevie waited till the sound of the soldier’s
footsteps had faded, then she yanked the
leather strap, opening the hatch, and backed
herself out into the kitchen.

Riley was moaning when she tugged him

out of the tiny space, but also smiling.

“Agent Pretty,” he said. “A kiss from pretty

Annie Birch.”

Boys are the same down through the years,
thought Chevie, then punched Riley in the
stomach.

“Sorry, kid,” she said as Riley doubled

over, retching. “One more should do it.”

She punched him again and stood clear as
the boy vomited a stream of half-digested

471/571
macarons and, she hoped, deadly night-
shade onto the floorboards.

“Okay,” she said, to herself mostly. “Okay.

He should make it now. I hope.”

Chevie swabbed Riley’s face as best she
could with a damp cloth from the sink, then
she helped the boy stagger to the kitchen
door, which led conveniently to the back of
the house.

We gotta get out of here, thought Chevie
again, grabbing an overcoat from a hook by
the door. But I wish I could stay long enough
to see the look on Charismo’s face. I bet the
spirits didn’t warn him about this.

The look on Charismo’s face was a blend of
disbelief and petulant terror, an unusual
cocktail of emotions for a set of features to
display. The result was that Tibor appeared
to be sucking on an invisible bottle when Co-
lonel Jeffers of the Knightsbridge Barracks
strode into his office, flanked by two privates
and a doctor.

472/571
Once they were certain that Charismo was
unarmed and alone, the soldiers relaxed a
fraction, though the barrels of the privates’
Lee-Enfield repeater rifles were rock steady
and aimed squarely at Charismo’s torso.

Charismo fluttered his kerchief, as though

that could deflect bullets from their course.

“Am I in danger, Captain?” he enquired
querulously. “Has the duke sent you to pro-
tect me? Is there a credible threat?”

“There is a threat, sir,” replied Jeffers.
“Indeed there is, and I have the misfortune
to be staring directly at it.”

Charismo’s hanky fluttered like a hum-
mingbird’s wing. “Right at it? I am the
threat? Tibor Charismo threatens? And
whom does he threaten, Captain? Answer me
that.”

Jeffers did not answer, but he followed a
cable on the floor until his eyes lighted on
the Farspeak, which lay where Riley had
tipped it.

473/571
“Somebody wishes to speak to you, sir,” he
said, picking up the device and holding it out
to Charismo.

Charismo understood then, and his curled
mustache quivered. “I do not wish to con-
verse at present,” he said, almost childishly.

“I advise you to take it,” said Jeffers firmly,
and Charismo correctly inferred that to re-
fuse again would have dire consequences. He
accepted the Farspeak with trembling hands
and pressed the transmitter close to his
mouth.

“Hello? Your Grace?”
On the other end was the rattling breath-
ing of a pipe smoker, then: “I am dreadfully
disappointed, Tibor. Dreadfully.”

Charismo tried to talk his way out of it.
“Your Grace, I can only imagine what you
must have thought. Sometimes when I am in
the grip of the spirits, my words are not as I
would choose.”

474/571
“Silence!” thundered the Duke of West-
minster. “I am to die! The queen is to die.
The rheumatic queen, for whom you do not
care a fig! The end of the house of Hanover.”
“Perhaps I overstepped the mark,” admit-

ted Charismo.

“Overstepped the mark? You plan to aid
the Germans in a war against Britannia! Ger-
many is our friend. This is high treason,
nothing less.”

the

scandal.

“It was idle chatter. A passing notion.”
“Imagine
Imagine

the
heartache this would inflict on Her Majesty,
at her age. Her own spiritualist conspiring
against her. My blasted spiritualist. We trus-
ted you, Tibor. Damn you, sir.”

Charismo thought

fast. “A trial would

cause considerable scandal.”

The duke chuckled, the laugh of a harsh
man. “There will be no trial, sir. I have de-
clared you insane and, while you languish in-
side Bethlehem Lunatic Asylum,
I shall

475/571
systematically erase you from history. Your
works will be unofficially banned, your books
burned, your songs will never again be heard
on the music-hall stage. We shall see which
of us survives to see the new century.” A loud
click from the earpiece signaled that the con-
versation was over.

“No!” Charismo protested to Jeffers. “No, I

will not stand for it. I am Tibor Charismo.”

Jeffers drew himself to attention. “You are
a traitor, sir, possibly foreign to boot. The
madhouse is too good for you.”

“This is all a mistake, Captain. If you
search downstairs in the kitchen, you will
find my manservant. He is the real criminal
here.”

“We found your manservant. He, at least,

died with honor.”

Reality finally dropped on Charismo like
an anvil from the sky. “Barnum dead? I am
lost.”

476/571
Jeffers stepped close. “There is an option,
sir, but I would be amazed if you availed
yourself of it. You may accept my challenge
and we can end this affair right now.” The
captain took off his left glove and struck Cha-
rismo across the cheek, causing his mask to
fly off.

Jeffers stepped back in momentary horror,
but his stiff upper lip quickly reasserted
itself.

“My God, man. You are an animal.”
The left side of Tibor’s face was covered
with green and brown reptilian scales, which
seemed to change color as he moved.

“It was

the wormhole!” he howled.
“Quantum mutation. The professor swore it
would not happen to me.”

Jeffers clicked his fingers. “Take him. I will

not fight an animal.”

Tibor continued his rant, even as the
privates dragged him from the room to the
ambulance outside.

477/571
“Make sure he is locked away from the
other inmates,” said Jeffers, stamping on the
Farspeak until the casing gave up its entrails
of wires and fuses. “And send up some
squaddies. I want everything taken from this
house and burned.” Charismo’s cries echoed
through the ruins of his devastated hallway
and set the ambulance horses a-whinnying in
distress.

Albert Garrick watched events unfold,
leaning forward on the park bench in rapt at-
tention. One minute all was quiet on Gros-
venor Square, and the next a squad of Her
Majesty’s finest had double-timed it to the
front door with an honest-to-God cannon in
tow, followed by a black carriage.

“Well, blimey,” he said, forgetting his care-
fully cultivated accent for a moment. “This is
a right royal turnup.”

Whatever maneuver was about to be em-
ployed would certainly not go off half-

478/571
cocked. There were enough troops here to
fight the Boxers.

The soldiers expertly swiveled their can-
non and blew the door in, sending a flock of
starlings soaring into the sky.
London

town. How

A battle

in

extraordinary!

It occurred to Garrick that the presence of
all these soldiers would hamper his efforts to
cancel Charismo’s contract with the Rams.

And all because I neglected to kill Riley in
his bed all those years ago. Could that be the
whole reason? Would Charismo pit himself
against a man of my caliber over the life of
a child?

Suddenly Garrick remembered the first

time he had spied a Timekey.

Riley’s father had one on his person. I
took it from his corpse and delivered it to
Charismo. He
device
specifically.

asked

the

for

479/571
It occurred to Garrick then that Mr. Tibor
Charismo had seen the future and was bene-
fitting from his knowledge.

But not anymore. Charismo has gone too
far with someone, and now the military are
involved, which would suggest a govern-
ment
the
monarchy.

connection,

perhaps

even

This pleased Garrick greatly, as he had al-
ways thought the man a trifle smug and had
never liked his music. Another Brick in Yon-
der Wall. Honestly.

The spirit of Felix Sharp suddenly made
the connection, and Garrick physically reeled
with the realization.

He knew that song, or rather Agent Sharp
knew it, because it originated in the future.
Tibor Charismo had not only been to the fu-
ture, he belonged there.

Garrick closed his eyes, focusing on his
train of thought. He pictured Charismo’s

480/571
face, then allowed his memory to make it
younger and draw on a ratty beard.

Tibor Charismo was Terry Carter,

the
missing witness. Agent Sharp had the file in
his desk. William Riley had been his handler.
This put a completely different complexion
on the matter. Charismo could not be al-
lowed to talk to anyone. If he had a Timekey,
then he could demonstrate its workings, and
Garrick could become a fugitive once more.

I must act now, he thought. Carpe diem.
The circumstances are far from ideal, but the
risk is acceptable.

Garrick’s on-the-hoof plan involved sub-
duing the carriage driver and then hopefully
absconding with Charismo in the back.

He might even believe I am rescuing him.
Garrick smiled grimly. This misapprehen-

sion would not last for long.

The blossoming scheme dried up and
withered when two soldiers emerged from

481/571
the house with Charismo suspended between
them, his short legs bicycling the air.

There is no time. No time.
Garrick knew that, even with his speed, he
could not vault the railings and overpower
the driver in time.

But all was not lost. Garrick was nothing if
not adaptable. He stepped behind the trunk
of a large hawthorn bush and pulled his
laser-sighted pistol. It was a shame to waste
a bullet on the likes of Charismo, but at least
it would be only one.

Garrick sighted quickly along the barrel

and placed a red dot over Charismo’s heart.

I will never know the full truth of why you
wished me dead, he thought. It is a pity we
could not chat, you and I, but better a nig-
gling mystery than a dangerous loose end.

Garrick’s finger was about to squeeze the
trigger when he noticed that the carriage was
actually a secure ambulance, with the Bethle-
hem Lunatic Asylum logo inked on the side.

482/571
They are taking him to Bethlehem, Garrick

realized.

He watched bemused as Charismo was
stripped down and roughly bundled into an
asylum work shirt. His clothes were tossed
onto a growing pile of his possessions on the
basement stairwell, which was doused with
lamp oil and set alight.

Charismo’s Timekey is busted now, if he
kept it, Garrick realized with some satisfac-
tion. Tibor can talk of wormholes to his
heart’s content, and all it will earn him is a
spike between the eyes.

Garrick pocketed his gun and strolled cas-

ually toward the far side of the park.

I will come to find you, Tibor, he thought.
Before very long I will know all of your
secrets. After all, you don’t need them
anymore.

In seconds, Garrick’s mind was once again
focused on his main mission to find Chevie
and Riley, with absolutely no idea that he

483/571
had come within a hair’s breadth of snagging
them for the second time.

By this time, my spies will be scouring the
city, he thought, all craving the reward for
information on the boy with the odd eyes
and his Injun companion.

Although slightly

aggrieved at being
denied the opportunity to question Char-
ismo, Garrick judged it to be a fair morning’s
work, all in all.

One more enemy safely out of the way, he
thought, whistling the opening bars of
Another Brick in Yonder Wall.

Only two remain.

The Old Nichol

THE OLD NICHOL ROOKERY. BETHNAL

GREEN. LONDON. 1898

Chevie tried to flag down a cab, but she was
filthy from her trips up and down Charismo’s
chimney and no driver would halt until she
stood half in the road, waving Malarkey’s
gold purse. As the hansom clattered away,
Chevie slumped on the seat beside Riley and
wondered where in the universe they could
go in order to earn a minute’s respite. Her
ribs ached from the various scrapes that
Victorian London had inflicted on her per-
son, and she realized that somewhere in the

485/571
this misadventure she had de-

midst of
veloped a constant ringing in her left ear.

Riley was recovering, but in no shape to
journey far. They needed to find a place to
hide until she could figure out their next
move.

It would be irresponsible to allow Garrick
to run amok in London with all the know-
ledge in his head, which he would definitely
not be using to put an end to war and starva-
tion. Simply put: Garrick had to be stopped.
But how? She had no idea. This was Riley’s
world, and they would have to put their
heads together on a problem as big as Gar-
rick. And to do that they would have to lie
low somewhere until they were fit enough to
fight back.

Chevie slapped Riley’s cheek gently.
“Come on, Riley. Wake up, partner. There
must be somewhere this lunatic won’t follow
us. Where is Garrick afraid to go?”

486/571
She was forced to repeat the question sev-
eral times before it penetrated Riley’s addled
skull, but as soon as he understood the ques-
tion, he knew the answer: the Old Nichol.
His face paled and his hands shook at the
very idea.

“There is a place,” he said, then coughed
long and harsh. “Somewhere Garrick has
sworn he would never go. He would rather
smash his artist’s hands with a mallet, said
he,
than return to the rookeries of Old
Nichol.”

Chevie sat straight in the hansom’s seat,
brushing the soot from her shirt. “Off we go,
then. The Old Nichol it is.”

Riley was not so eager, for to see the devil
afraid of a place is a powerful incentive never
to pay that place a visit. He gazed at the road
ahead, remembering how Garrick had de-
scribed the Old Nichol.

“My master told me that the air in Old
Nichol is charged with sulfur, enough so that

487/571
the rats and small dogs will turn snow white
and asphyxiate.”

Chevie sat back beside her traveling part-
ner. “Rats turning white is never good,” she
admitted.

“At the rear of each tenement or rookery
there is a pile of raw sewage, which is fed by
the entire building. The only creatures who
thrive in Old Nichol are those which feed on
offal.”

Chevie felt her stomach sour. Offal-thriv-
ing did not sound like much of a way to get
by.

Riley remembered something else. “Old
Nichol is slow death for all. Garrick told me
of a strongman who fell on hard times and
took a bunk there. In six months he had
wasted away to nothing and died of blood
poisoning from bedsores. They buried him in
a flour sack.”

“Oh, come on,” objected Chevie. “We’re
not getting married and raising kids there.

488/571
You just need a few hours’ sleep to get the
poison out of your system, then we can figure
out a way to defeat Garrick.”

“It takes only a moment to suck down

whooping cough.”

This was a sobering statement and almost
turned Chevie from her purpose, but she
held onto her reasoning. Garrick would not
set foot in this Old Nichol hellhole, so they
must, if only for a single night.
She rapped on the cab’s roof.
“Hey, buddy. Take us to the Old Nichol.”
The cabbie slid back an aperture and stuck
his head in the hole. “Beggin’ your pardon,
miss. This heat have me addled. I could’ve
sworn you said Old Nichol.”

“You got it, pal.”
The cabbie’s luxuriant eyebrows arched
like small fish. “Old Nichol? West End to the
Old Nichol? Is the tourist having me on,
young sir?”

“No,” replied Riley gloomily. “She ain’t.”

489/571
The cabbie spat into the street. “Well, beg-
gin’ yer pardon, but I ain’t taking you into
the stink. The bleeders would have the shoes
off me mare. I’ll drop the pair of ye at Beth-
nal Green, and you can risk yer own skins
from there.”

Poverty and crime are never very distant
in London. Even in the modern metropolis,
cast an eye down any alley and there is an
unfortunate making himself as comfortable
as the pavement allows. But in the nine-
teenth century, the Old Nichol rookery had
been saturated so thoroughly by destitution
and neglect that not even a postcard-sized
area was exempt. Each building was a tene-
ment, each citizen was crooked with disease,
and every occupation dealt with the immedi-
ate preservation of life. Even the climate
seemed worse there, creating a chill, damp
principality inside the boundaries of London
proper.

490/571
As Chevie Savano and Riley walked along
Boundary Street, all hope of a bright future
seeped down into their boots and onto the
uneven cobbles. There wasn’t a shantytown
in the modern world that could compare
with the Old Nichol for sheer grim despair.

Walls of greasy bricks rose from the
cracked paving stones, story plonked upon
story. Windows, apparently placed at ran-
dom, were rarely glazed, and were curtained
by busted crates or flapping rags. Street
stalls were piled with decayed objects that
would have been on the rubbish heap in any
other market. The fruit was gray and pulped,
the bread tinged with green, and rock hard.

Even the people in this place seemed the
offspring of a different, meaner god. Gone
was the irrepressible cockney spirit, and in
its place the hacking cough or the threaten-
ing leer. The inhabitants moved with a pecu-
liar shuffling gait, shoulders hunched and

491/571
elbows tight to their sides, protecting them-
selves as much as possible.

Chevie could not keep the shock from her

voice. “This is . . . It’s like hell on earth.”

Riley hung on to her elbow. “We need to
get ourselves inside. Put some solid planks
between us and Old Nichol before nightfall. I
must get my head down.”

A slovenly woman stood, elbows on a half-

door, staring vacantly into the street.

Riley approached her, ignoring the filthy

urchins nudging his knees like cleaner fish.

“Any spare digs, ma’am? We are requiring

a lurk for the night.”

The woman eyed them suspiciously from

underneath a fuzz of curls.

“Chink?”
Riley nodded tightly, hiding his nausea.
“At the ready. We have firearms, too, but
only shot enough for the bluebottles.”

492/571
Firearms was a bit of an exaggeration.
They had Barnum’s revolver and six shots
only.

The woman barked with laughter, and
there was sour gin on her breath. “Blue-
bottles? I ain’t seen the law in here since
ninety-two, when they tried to take in the
traitor Giles. What a morning that was.
There was enough blue blood in the gutters
to wash out the cholera.”

“Have you got a room or not?” Riley

insisted.

“I gots the loft spare. Cove gave up the
ghost on Wednesday. Someone took him to
the heap, I think.”

“How much?”
A crafty light sparked in the stinking wo-

man’s eye. “I would take a sov.”

“I’ll wager you would, if I would be sap
enough to fork one over. I have a shiny shil-
ling here, which you can take or not. If it’s

493/571
not, then we’ll be moving along down the
street for ourselves.”

The woman rubbed a finger along a
sparsely populated bottom gum. “I shall be
taking that shiny shilling, young gent.”

Riley handed it across. “And warn any
likely lads about the firearms,” he said. “I
hate to waste shots on fellow killers, but if
anyone tries to crack our drum, I will make
an exception. Also, my companion here is a
black-magic witch, and she will set fire ants
a-crawling in yer brain.”

The woman flicked the coin with her yel-

lowed thumbnail and listened to it sing.

“Fire ants,” says she, unimpressed. “I’ve
had those bleeders inside me head for years.”

•••

Riley and Chevie picked their way down a
hallway where the floor could have been re-
moved from a salt-warped shipwreck: the

494/571
boards jostled with each other for space and
rose or fell like the ends of a seesaw, depend-
ing on the point of pressure. The passage was
lined with young criminals—a collection of
snakesmen, smashers, palmers, hoisters, and
prowlers the likes of which would rarely be
seen this side of Newgate’s watchtower.
These boys smoked what they could find,
which seemed to be mostly rolled-up strips
of wallpaper that burned out after a drag or
two and covered the lungs with paste, which
made running from the coppers more
troublesome than it should have been for a
group of young feller-me-lads.

Every one of those boys gave Riley the evil
eye on his way past, but they did not know
what to make of Chevie, with her shining
hair and white teeth.

“You are like an angel to these poor coves,”
Riley whispered to her on the stairs. “Seeing
as they do not know you like I do.”

495/571
One of the urchins had the bottle to clear
his throat, calling from the upper landing,
“Here, miss. Is you the Injun princess what
humbled them Rams?”

Riley stepped forth, trying to appear more
energetic and aggressive than he felt. “Aye,
this is the very specimen. She ain’t got none
of the Queen’s English, so I does her talking.
She’s high-strung, too, so you gotta approach
her careful and always frontwise.”

“My name is Bob Winkle,” said the boy,
who could have been any color under the dirt
that encrusted his skin, and who had about
as much fat on his bones as a tinker’s ferret.
He was no taller than a ten-year-old, but his
voice and face were older.
“You need
any’fing? Booze, bread, or contraband? Bob
runs a clean service. Robs to order, too,
whatever you like.”

Riley reckoned that young Winkle’s service

was about as clean as his face.

496/571
“If we have need, we will rap on the floor.
But if you come up, no arm waving, or the
Injun princess is like to rip yer throat clean
out.”

The boys covered their throats and cleared

a path, waving Chevie through like royalty.

They mounted the stairs toward their ren-
ted loft, steeling their hearts against the
glazed eyes of the residents they encountered
on the climb. Young girls brawled, dragging
clumps out of each other’s matted hair.
Grandfathers sat wedged in corners, sucking
on empty pipes and swearing into space, and
everywhere the clamor of despair
rose
through the house, funneled skyward by the
stairwell like a cry to heaven.

Three flights up, they arrived at a door at
the end of an uncommonly rickety set of
steps. Riley twisted the wooden knob and
was not surprised to find their room un-
locked. A heavy brick stood against the wall
inside,
the

to be used as a stopper if

497/571
occupants required some privacy; but what
would be the point when the walls of the loft
were pocked with sledgehammer holes?
Chevie hurried in and hefted the brick.
“Come on,” she urged Riley. “Let’s get this

secured.”

Riley obliged with some reluctance. “I nev-
er dreamed these poor people could sink so
low.”

The brick scraped across the floor as Chev-
ie wedged it against the door. “You’ve never
been here?”

“Never. I fled to Saint Giles once and
thought that a proper slum, but I’ve seen
nothing like this before. I understand now
why Garrick vowed never to return.”

Chevie tore brown paper from one corner
of the small window to let some air into the
rank chamber, though it was hardly worth
the effort.

Riley wrapped his arms around himself,
sinking to the rotting wooden floor. “We are

498/571
between the workhouse and the grave here,”
he said quietly. “Londoners fear Old Nichol
because it awaits us, each and every one.” He
shuddered. “I should not have brought you
here, Chevie, and you a lady.”

Chevie draped her

arm around his
shoulder, moving close for warmth. “No. We
had to come.” Chevie remembered the ques-
tion she had been meaning to ask Riley for
the past few hours. “Tell me something, Ri-
ley. Did you knock over the Farspeak on
purpose?”

Riley stopped himself from shivering long
enough to answer. “Yes. Charismo handed us
the rope to hang him.”

“Yes,” agreed Chevie. “That guy talked too

much.”

“He had my poor mum killed,” said Riley,
sniffing. “And my dad—he was one of your
lot.”

“I know,” said Chevie. “Special Agent Wil-
liam Riley. I read his file. He was quite a

499/571
boxer. Before he disappeared, he was known
for having fast hands.”

“I have fast hands. Garrick said he never

seen hands faster.”

“We will need your hands, and your wits, if

we are to defeat Garrick.”

Riley huddled close for warmth and so that
his nose would register Chevie’s healthy
odors rather than his rank surroundings.

“But what do we have to work with?

Everything’s gone. Even the Timekey.”

“Sharp’s key is gone,” admitted Chevie.

“But I have another one.”

She reached down the leg of her riding
boot and tugged out a Timekey by the
lanyard.

“Charismo’s,” guessed Riley. “You took it

when you lifted his ring?”

“I did take it, but it’s not Charismo’s.”
Riley’s eyes widened. “My dad’s. Bill Ri-

ley’s key.”

500/571
“That’s right,” said Chevie, passing the key
to Riley. “Your dad is still watching over
you.”

This notion seemed to give Riley comfort

and determination.

“We must use our time in this dreadful
place to plot. We cannot take Garrick in a
straight brawl.”

Chevie grunted, staring straight ahead.
“Maybe not, but there’s more than one way
to skin a cat.”

“Shhh,” warned Riley. “Else people will be-
lieve that there’s a cat in here; then we will
have dinner guests.”

Chevie groaned. “Cats? People here eat

cats?”

Riley nodded. “If you let them, they would
eat your boots.” “We have so got to get out of
here.”

“We will,” said Riley. “You saved me in

your world. Now I will save you in mine.”

501/571
This was not simply idle babble. Riley
clasped his own father’s Timekey to his chest
and judged it a good omen. Now they had
hope. Now they had something to build a
plan around.

You taught me well, Albert Garrick,
thought Riley, seeing the assassin’s face in
his mind’s eye. Now we must see if your own
lessons can be turned against you.

In spite of the wretchedness of their sur-
roundings and the constant assault on their
senses, Chevie and Riley somehow managed
to drop into a fitful sleep for a few hours.

They woke simultaneously, feeling both
starved and disgusted by the idea of eating
food that had been prepared in this place.
Especially meat, as Chevie had noticed a sus-
picious absence of rats. The sulfur-infused
air had set
their heads throbbing and
stripped their throats of moisture.

“We need to buy some water,” said Chevie.

502/571
“Not here,” advised Riley. “A delicate gut
like yours could not stomach Old Nichol wa-
ter. It would be out again soon enough, one
road or the other.”

Chevie did not ask for details, and she
knew that being ill was not something she
could risk right now.

“Okay. No water, spoilsport. You go back

to sleep and let me think.”

Riley wriggled closer. “I am also thinking.
Garrick has given me gifts that he may not
expect me to use.”

“If you have an idea, please share.”
“I have the seed of an idea,” said Riley. “It

needs . . . watering.”

Chevie may have chuckled or possibly

shivered.

They sat without speaking for a while.
“Can I ask a question?” said Riley, long
minutes after Chevie was certain he’d fallen
asleep.

“Ask away,” said Chevie.

503/571
“In advance I beg you not to be insulted,

for I do respect you.”

“Oh, I love these questions. Go on.”
Riley considered his phrasing. “Chevie, I
heard how those agents from the future
spoke to you. Why do you want to stay in the
FBI when they don’t seem to want you? And
how does someone of your years, and a fe-
male to boot, nab herself a position with the
bluebottles?”

“That’s more than one question. That’s

more or less my life story you’re asking for.”

Riley moved closer in case there was a
candle’s worth of heat to be had. “You saw
my life in the tunnel, Chevron. I think you
could speak of yours. We are close now, are
we not?”

“We are close,” agreed Chevie. She had
never been closer to anyone. She was bonded
to this boy by trauma. “Okay, I’ll tell you
about me.”

504/571
Riley did not speak, but elbowed her softly
in the midriff, which Chevie decided to inter-
pret as go ahead.

“You know I’m an orphan, like you. After
my folks were gone, I was put in the foster
system, but I was never adopted— too old
and too loud, they said. Apparently that
made me just perfect for another family, a
much bigger one: the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation. The FBI was putting a program
together in conjunction with Homeland Se-
curity to stop terrorist cells from getting a
grip on the minds of high-school kids. And
what better way to guard our schools than
with undercover juvenile agents? Sounds
crazy, right? Hollywood crazy. But they got
funding from a CIA slush fund, if you can be-
lieve that, and they picked half a dozen
orphans from California for a pilot scheme.
We were trained in a place called Quantico
and then inserted in a school.” Chevie
paused to check that Riley was still awake,

505/571
half hoping that he would not be. “Any ques-
tions so far, kid?”

Riley stirred. “Just one. What is Holly-

wood crazy?”

A good question. “You like those adventure
books, Riley. Well Hollywood crazy is
something so wild that it wouldn’t seem out
of place in a H. G. Wells story.”

“I see. Carry on.”
Chevie shifted a little on the boards, trying
for at least a modicum of comfort. “My target
was an Iranian family with four kids in the
school. I was supposed to cozy up to the kids,
get into their circle, and call the office if they
had any terrorist plans. A simple observe-
and-report mission. No weapons for teen-
agers, you understand. So I did what I was
told, acted friendly, got close. And I realized
that these kids weren’t interested in terroriz-
ing anyone—they just wanted to make it
through high school, like the rest of us. If
anything,
being

they were

the

ones

506/571
terrorized. We had a group of real sweet-
hearts in our school who couldn’t tell the dif-
ference between Saudi, Iraqi, and Iranian,
and couldn’t care less. One night a Jeep full
of these guys corners my Iranians outside a
theater. It got real ugly real fast. One of them
pulls a weapon, starts putting shots into the
asphalt.”

“I can guess what happened,” said Riley.

“You did not take kindly to this behavior.”

Chevie scowled. “No, I did not. I twisted
that gun out of his hand, but not before he
managed to put a ricochet into his own leg.”

“It appears to me as though you were

something of a heroine.”

“Yeah, you would think that, except I got a
little carried away and fired a warning shot
overhead.”

“That does not sound so serious.”
“No, except now the kid claims that I shot
him. And I have gunshot residue on my
hand, and some joker with a camera phone

507/571
captures everything on film, but
from a
crappy angle that shows me doing all my
martial arts but not
the kid shooting
himself.”

“Ah. Gunshot residue sounds like evidence

that Sherlock Holmes would look for.”

“Exactly, or should I say, elementary. So
now it’s all over the news how there’s a kid
with a gun and a badge in a high school. It
gets all the way to the senate. The Agency
realizes its teen-agent scheme is at best un-
constitutional and at worst illegal, so quickly
and quietly retires all the other kids.”

“But Agent Chevron Savano has found her

family and does not wish to retire.”

“That’s right. I don’t want to go, and they
can’t force me out just yet because there is a
committee looking into the whole thing and
I’m not supposed to exist. So they ship me
off to London, and I think you know the
rest.”

508/571
Riley did not comment outright, and once
again Chevie believed he had fallen asleep
until he said, “If we are to deal with Garrick,
you will need to hold your temper.”

Chevie felt a weight of responsibility settle
on her mind like a vise. This was a big mo-
ment for both of them. Riley had never
voiced the opinion that it was even possible
to be saved from the devil Garrick.

“But,” continued Riley, “this is a plan we
should make together. After all, we fight for
both our lives. We are brothers in this.”

“Agreed,” said Chevie. “So tell me about

this seed we have to water.”

Riley spoke and Chevie realized that this

kid was even smarter than she had guessed.

When he had come to a full stop, Chevie
commented, “A little harebrained, Riley, and
I don’t see how we can do it alone.”

Riley rapped on the floor with the heel of
his boot, sending echoes tumbling through

509/571
the building. “I know a boy who runs a clean
operation and will work for coin.”

•••

When the scheme had been hammered as
straight as it could ever be, Riley sent Bob
Winkle and his crew to fetch their provi-
sions, and he joined Chevie in the corner of
the room where the wall sweated a sickly
sweet heat that warmed their fingers when
they wormed them between the bricks.

“Winter would be worse,” said Riley. “We

would not last a night.”

“No HDTV either,” said Chevie, and began
to laugh. After a puzzled moment, Riley
joined in, not knowing what HDTV was, but
happy to have any excuse for mirth.

When the poisonous air forced them to
stop taking such gulps,
laughter
petered out and the hubbub from beyond
their window once again filled the room.

their

510/571
Chevie held Riley’s hands inside the make-

shift vent.

“You know that we’re on borrowed time?”
said Riley. “Even though Garrick won’t come
in here, he can pay those that will.”

“We move as soon as Bob gets back,” said
Chevie. “Don’t worry. It’s a good plan. It will
work.”

“It must,” said Riley, squeezing her fingers
tightly. “There will be no second chances
with Garrick.”

There was a knock on the door.
“I gots a message fer the Injun princess,”
said a reedy voice. Chevie opened the door
and there stood a consumptive
boy with blood on his gums and the rattle of
phlegm in his windpipe.

Chevie dragged the boy inside then pinned
him to the wall for a quick frisk. Garrick
would not be above booby-trapping a child.
He would probably consider it funny.

511/571
“Don’t rip me froat out, miss. I only done it
for the sweety.” The boy had nowhere to con-
ceal anything, and there was nothing con-
cealed. In his hand he held a square of brown
packing paper and on it was carefully drawn
a window.

The message was clear: Go to the window.
Sure, thought Chevie. Like I’m going to the
window. But she did, ducking underneath
the sill, cocking one eye at the ripped corner
the sun rising
of paper, peering out at
through the pearly
fog,
the
rooftops.

scanning

She could see nothing odd. Nothing, that
is, odder than a view of the nineteenth
century.

Bowed roofs and chimney stacks. A distant

spire.

No, not a distant spire. A man on the

rooftops, a red light flashing in his fist.

The strange red light sliced through the
its time,

fog, a hundred years ahead of

512/571
painting a dot on the paper plugging the
tenement window.

“Down,” called Chevie, diving at both boys,
dragging them to the floor, and not a mo-
ment too soon. Six shots punctured the pa-
per and knocked fist-sized chunks from the
brick wall. Dust clouds swirled in the tubes
of light admitted by the bullet holes.

Chevie held the boys down until she felt

that the attack was past.

“He’s found us,” gasped Riley.
The boards creaked under their weight as
though collapse was imminent. The stench of
boiled tripe was stronger with their noses to
the wood, and through a gap in the floor
Chevie could see a dozen figures rousing
from their sleep in the cramped murk below.
“If you are well enough to leave,” she said
to Riley, “I have had quite enough of the Old
Nichol.”

“You try keeping up with me,” said Riley,

and commenced crawling for the doorway.

Unto Dust

THE OLD NICHOL ROOKERY. BETHNAL

GREEN. LONDON. 1898

in discreet observation of

Albert Garrick had spent most of the previ-
ous night
the
house on Bedford Square until one of his
stooges sent him word of the Injun princess’s
whereabouts. There had also been a Batter-
ing Ram keeping an eye on the place, but the
man received news from a runner at twelve
bells and cleared out of his lurk.

Doubtless Otto has heard of Tibor Char-

ismo’s fate.

514/571
So now Garrick was on the border of the

Old Nichol with his marvelous weapons.

A few warning shots, he had reckoned, to

smoke out my quarry.

Garrick spotted the twitch at the loft win-
dow, then utilized the beautiful and deadly
laser to lay a few potshots into the room. The
effectiveness of the sights made him quite
emotional.

It is a perfect creation in its blend of form

and function.

It was a simple matter for Garrick to take
two paces eastward on the rooftop and thus
have a clear view of the tenement’s front
door.

Riley knows I could never enter that build-
ing, he realized. The boy had a cruel streak in
him. He could have made a worthy assistant,
had he not betrayed me.

The rookery had only one exit, and it was
through this doorway that Riley and Chevie
must emerge, unless they planned to drown

515/571
in the sewage pit at the rear of the house or
batter their way through the one-story shack
sublets that stood propped against it.

And with my most

excellent FBI
weaponry, I will pick them off as they leave.
He smiled. The end is nigh, Chevron

Savano.

There was a flurry of activity at the door,
precipitated by some yappy fighting mutts
who tumbled into the street barking.

Here they come, thought Garrick, activat-
ing his laser sight. Two shots only; save bul-
lets for the gunsmith.

But instead of two frightened fugitives, no
less than a dozen youths erupted from the
hovel door, bursting through the refuse lit-
tering the front passage, all sporting broad-
brimmed hats, scattering like criminals on
the run. It was impossible to tell if Riley and
Chevie were among them.

Garrick grinned tightly from his perch. A

diversionary bunch. Clever.

516/571
The assassin supposed that he could drop
half a dozen, but that would be a shocking
waste of ammunition, and the bobbies would
be attracted by mass murder, even in the Old
Nichol.

Garrick pocketed his weapon and ran for

the stairwell.

So now we race, my son. Only the swift
shall survive. The future lies in Bedford
Square for us all.

Chevie ran straight across the road, avoid-
ing potholes as she went. Directly facing the
tenement’s doorway was a forlorn alley
barely the width of a man’s shoulders, which
Chevie and Riley darted down, avoiding the
turgid stream that trickled down the middle.
The black passage was lined with an honor
guard of Bob Winkle’s boys, all clapping and
whooping with whatever enthusiasm their
tarry lungs would permit.

517/571
Bob Winkle waited like an angel in the
white fog at the alley’s end, holding open a
crooked wooden door.

“Get in, Yer Highness,” called Winkle. “I
fed the horse some peppers, and she is rear-
ing for the off.”

Chevie dived into the hansom cab’s box
while Riley clambered up to the driver’s seat
and Winkle landed beside him with remark-
able agility for one so malnourished.

“You move sprightly-like,” commented

Riley.

“I threw down a few beers,” admitted

Winkle. “Just to perk myself up.”

“This is your cab?” Chevie called to the boy

from below.

“For the moment,

is your carriage,
ma’am,” said Winkle, winking through the
roof hole.

it

Riley grabbed the long-handled whip from
its holster and cracked it expertly between
the horse’s ears. Part of his magician/

518/571
assassin training had been whip work, and
Riley could snap a playing card out of a
punter’s
fingers blindfolded. The horse
reared once in fright, snapped strong teeth at
its tormentor,
then took off across the
cobbles toward Bloomsbury and Bedford
Square.
Garrick opted to run toward the house on
Bedford Square. A hansom would be swifter,
but there were none to be seen.

It vexed him, even as his lungs burned,
that he, the great Albert Garrick, was forced
to run down an urchin and a girl.

There was no question now of letting them

live.

They know my secrets, and I suspect that
soon enough Agent Savano will turn her
wiles to the task of plotting my downfall.

Garrick knew that these two links to the
future must be comprehensively severed lest
they use the Timekey to reconnect with

519/571
Chevron’s time and bring justice down upon
him.

The magician felt his hat fly off his head
and he let it go, allowing his long hair to
stream out behind him. The wind in his locks
made him feel primal and unstoppable.

Riley drove the hansom as though the dev-
il were on their tail, which was not far from
the truth. The trip was a little more than two
and a half miles, and Riley clipped almost
every footpath on the journey, tossing Bob
Winkle and Chevie like bulls-eyes in a jar,
but they never complained or cried halt; they
were all too willing to wear a few bruises if
the prize was escaping Albert Garrick.

Riley, not content simply to graze foot-
paths, seemed determined to drive the cab to
destruction. He thundered past a lord’s car-
riage and was only saved from tipping upside
down by the steadying steel of a lamppost,
which buckled under the weight of
the
hansom’s broadside.

520/571
Their progress along Gower Street was
marked by two constable’s whistles; a baker’s
tray tossed into the air, showering the boys
trailing the cart with hot rolls; and a sea of
roast potatoes rolling from an overturned
grill.

Chevie tried to hold herself steady enough
to look out for Garrick, but the city flashed
past, and her senses were addled by the
jostling.

“Nearly there,” she said to herself, teeth

clacking as she spoke. “I know this area.”

And she did, as the general architecture
and layout of the streets did not change sub-
stantially over the next century.

Riley stood on the board, hauling on the
reins, and slowed the beleaguered nag to a
trot. He leaned into the roof aperture.

“Out you get, Chevie,” he ordered. “Bob,
you dump this hansom in Covent Garden so
as to draw the bluebottles away. Take it

521/571
steady from here; no need to draw any sharp
looks.”

Bob took the reins, his face a-glow with the
sheer joy of flight. “Yessir, Mr. Riley. And if
they nabs me, I’ll not peach, Winkle’s word
on it.”

Riley passed him the last of Malarkey’s

coin. “The princess thanks you, Bob.”

Winkle stuffed the money inside his
ragged waistcoat. “You know where I lurks, if
you have need. Inform the princess that next
time I’ll be bartering for a kiss.”

Chevie threw open the door. “You wash
your face,” she said, stepping onto the road,
“and I might kiss it.”

Which caused the said mucky visage to
churn in consternation, then grin widely as
Bob Winkle snapped the reins and hurried
off, vowing to wash his face at the next avail-
able opportunity.

The door of the Bayley Street house was
solid wood with brass hinges and iron rivets

522/571
and would obviously not succumb to a
kicking.

Chevie was incredulous that a mere door
might stop them, when they had come so far.
She cast her eyes wildly around the square
for some tool that would help them break in,
but there was nothing on the street but nan-
nies with strollers, enjoying the morning sun
in the small park, or various street traders
offering breakfast treats.

“How are we supposed to get in?” asked
Chevie. “Our plan only works if we’re inside
the house.”

“Calm yourself, Chevie,” said Riley. “I have

cracked this drum before, remember?”

The assassin’s apprentice climbed on top
of the groundfloor railings and sprang up-
ward to grasp the sill of an upper window
with his fingertips. Riley hoisted open the
sash window and wriggled inside, just as he
had during his previous, fateful visit. Last
time the clasp had taken some forcing with a

523/571
jemmy; this time it was already busted in
two.

Half a minute passed, then Riley pulled

open the door a slice.

“Duck inside,” he said to Chevie. “I smell

Garrick approaching.”

Chevie obliged, saying, “I don’t smell any-
thing. I think I broke my sense of smell in
the Old Nichol.”

Riley closed the door, but he did not apply
the chain. “I feel him near in the twist of me
guts. It’s something I’ve always been able to
do.”

Chevie placed the flat of one palm against
her own stomach. “You know what, Riley? I
think you may have something there. Let’s
get moving. My guts are twisting something
awful.”
Albert Garrick plucked another twenty-first-
century phrase from the store in his mind:
the runner’s high.

524/571
I ain’t a jot tired, he thought, as the adren-
aline coursed through his system, maximiz-
ing his muscles’ performance. That is be-
cause my adrenal gland is releasing epineph-
rine. Fascinating.

Garrick leaned into the wind, pumping his
arms in the style of Carl Lewis, one of Felix
Smart’s favorite athletes.

The feeling didn’t

last, and darkness
clouded his morning mood. Garrick couldn’t
rest until the Timekey was destroyed and the
landing pad dismantled. He wouldn’t be
completely safe in this time until
that
happened.

Riley shall know that I am his master,

even unto dust.

When this is resolved, I will need to find
myself a new apprentice. A less reluctant
one.

I spared the rod. That will not happen
again. I will select an indigent from the Old
Nichol, feed him up, and teach him respect.

525/571
And if he doesn’t learn it, he shall go to the
grave, as his predecessor is about to do.

Garrick cut through the park, vaulting the
iron railings onto Bayley Street, just in time
to see the tail of Riley’s coat disappearing in-
to the shadowed hallway of Charles Smart’s
house.

Garrick’s bloodlust rose in his throat like

bile.

I shall have them both, he thought with
raw savagery, then away, before the alarm is
raised.

Garrick drew himself up to avoid con-
spicuous glances and strolled across the
street, as easy as a man with nothing more
on his mind than the purchase of morning
coffee and sweet rolls. This casual manner
was sloughed off once he put his shoulder to
Charles Smart’s door and found it unbolted.

They are mine, he thought, but then urged

himself toward caution.

526/571
Chevron Savano has considerable train-
ing. She is young and impetuous, but still
capable of surprises.

Garrick bolted the door behind him, then
drew the lasersighted pistol and walked rap-
idly toward the stairs. There was clattering
ahead as someone went down to the base-
ment. Garrick knew from the weight of the
footfalls and the whistle of breath that it was
Riley.

It is possible that the boy is slightly asth-
matic? Formative years spent in London’s
poisonous smog will have that effect, he real-
ized. And soon Riley’s breathing problems
will become more severe.

His own lungs were as clean as a whistle,

thanks to the wormhole.

Garrick took hold of the banister with his
free hand and swung himself into the stair-
well, using a shoulder to check himself
against the wall.

527/571
Riley was in view. Ten steps below! A pid-

dling, easy shot.

“Riley!” he thundered, rather enjoying the

melodrama. “Halt!”

The boy did not even turn, but his legs
wobbled and something slipped from his
hand.

The Timekey! Riley has dropped it.
Garrick could not quell an exclamation.

“Aha!”

The Timekey slipped from Riley’s fingers,
and the boy knew that he must be seen to re-
turn for it, or else the plan counted for noth-
ing. He spun around, only to find Garrick
already crushing the key under his heel.

You orphaned me,

“You betrayed me, orphan,” said Garrick.
“And your punishment will be a slow death.”
fury
building in his heart like steam in an engine,
and he attacked, which was most certainly
not part of the plan.

thought Riley,

528/571
Riley balled his fists, as he had been
taught, and punched Garrick in the nerve
cluster above the knee. The assassin’s leg had
no choice but to collapse, causing Garrick to
list sideways in the narrow stairwell. Riley
got off one more punch to the gut before
Garrick raised his guard.

“Some fighting spirit,” he said, his voice
reedy from the blow. “Too late for that, my
boy. We are at the tail end of this story.”

Riley fought on, searching for the chinks in
finding them down low,
Garrick’s guard,
around the hips and kidneys. And though
Garrick’s expression was untroubled, he was
reluctantly impressed by Riley’s skill, and
surprised at how difficult it was to defend
himself against the boy.

I have never fought someone who employs

my exact style, he realized.

Finally Garrick grew tired of the game. He
swept one arm around in a rapid arc, clout-
ing Riley soundly on one ear, disorientating

529/571
him utterly and sending him tumbling to the
base of the stairs, into the basement corridor
and out of sight.

Riley will turn on his master no more,

thought Garrick.

All that stood between him and total peace
of mind was one American teenager, who
was probably unarmed. Still, he would take
no chances.

Garrick spared a moment to finish crush-
ing the Timekey beneath his boot, grinding
the innards with great relish.

I could leave now. Just ascend and go. I

have destroyed the Timekey.

This voice Garrick now recognized as the
last wisps of Felix Smart’s conscience, at-
tempting to manipulate him. Garrick was de-
lighted to realize that he could not be turned
from his path.

Riley knows my face. His voice must be

silenced.

530/571
Death was the only answer. Unto dust, as
he always said. And now he could proceed to
the basement bedchamber without fear. The
bed’s metal frame was nothing more than
that without a Timekey to activate it. In
truth, Garrick knew he should have come
here during the night and disassembled the
bed, but he had been wary of ambush and
had to ensure the price on his head was re-
moved. No need for fretting now.

Garrick almost wished for twenty-first-
century surveillance cameras so that he
could record what was going to happen next.
This was an episode he would like to view
critically, to confirm that his presence was as
striking as he supposed.

There is always room for improvement in

a performance.

Garrick banished such thoughts and al-
lowed a cold, efficient sense of purpose to
encase his brain, like the cold steel of a dra-
goon’s helmet.

531/571
I must be the assassin now. Tomorrow
my world changes—in fact the entire world
may change—but for now, I am performing
a job of work. And Albert Garrick always
takes pride in his work.

He strode down the corridor, eyes quickly
adjusting to the gloom. There was scratching
in the shadows that perhaps an amateur
would have wasted ammunition on, but Gar-
rick knew the claws of rats when he heard
them and held his fire.

Riley moved slowly

ahead of him,
hampered by steamer trunks and man-
nequins, hunched over and casting fearful
glances toward his mentor.

“She has deserted you, son,” Garrick called

after him. “You are alone.”

“You murdered my parents!” Riley said. “I

am no son of yours.”

Garrick was about to deny it—after all,
how could Riley know what had transpired
all
truth

ago?—when the

those

years

532/571
occurred to him: The boy saw it in the
wormhole.

“It was a job of work,” he admitted, shoot-
ing a wheeled mannequin for fun. “I did
what I was hired to do. It was a matter of
trust. And did I not save you? Against orders,
I might point out.”

“Murderer!” howled Riley, darting through
into the gloom

the bedchamber door,
beyond.

Garrick prudently took up a position be-
side the doorway, unwilling to follow Riley
directly, in case Agent Savano attempted an
ambush.

Remember, you have both had the same
training. What is standard operating pro-
cedure when defending a room with a single
entrance?

Chevie would be waiting in a blind spot,
aiming whatever weapon she possessed at
the doorway.

If she is there at all.

533/571
Perhaps Agent Savano was not even in the
building. Still, better to lose a few seconds
than waste the opportunity to close this sor-
did chapter of the book.

Garrick summoned his memories of the
room. He had passed quite some time here,
waiting for Felix Smart to turn up.

A rectangular space with a small alcove
in the southern wall, with a dresser and
writing desk. Rows of barrel-sized cylin-
ders—crude batteries, I would guess, which
Smart was building to power future visits to
Victoria. Agent Savano will be in cover be-
hind the desk. Upon my entrance she will
have a clear shot at the optimum target
zone.

Garrick checked his pistol’s load.
Very well. Albert Garrick will

indeed

enter as expected.

Chevie knelt behind the writing desk with
Barnum’s revolver pointed at the doorway.

534/571
The instant Riley appeared, she was on her
feet with the weapon cocked.

Come on, Garrick, she willed the assassin.

Show me that greasy smile.

Garrick talked all the way, cock of the

cockney walk.

“We have shared quite the adventure,” he
said. “But for me to realize my full potential,
I need to be allowed to invest time in myself
without constant interference . . .”

This speech surprised Chevie greatly, as
she had shot Garrick three times between the
first and third syllables of the word adven-
ture. His cloak had twirled to the ground,
and the magician keeled over stiffly, yet he
continued to speak. And though she had
been forewarned that there would be trick-
ery, Chevie left herself exposed for a fraction
of a second, which gave the real Garrick the
chance to step calmly into the doorway and
shoot Chevie square in the chest while still

535/571
projecting his voice into the wheeled man-
nequin on the floor.

“. . . constant interference from a juvenile

agent who is completely out of her depth.”

Garrick allowed the thought

to flash
through his mind that perhaps this FBI-style
body shot was the most satisfying he had
ever fired, in spite of Felix Sharp’s attempts
to interfere with his conscience, or perhaps
because of that.

I am in control of myself once more.
Chevie was knocked backward by the im-
pact, lifted onto the tips of her toes, and al-
most somersaulted into a pile of blankets be-
hind her.

Garrick, ever the professional, decided
that he would savor the moment fully later,
once he was safe in the Orient Theatre. Now
was the moment to put the final nail in this
coffin.

“Riley, boy,” he said, his voice honeyed
and sonorous, as seductive a tone as was ever

536/571
heard on the West End stage. “Stop running,
son. Let me end your pain.”

Riley was facedown on the bed, his body

heaving with sobs.

At the end he was just a child. Perhaps

better to die in innocence.

Garrick pocketed his weapon, for it was
important that this killing be more personal.

Two quick steps brought him to the bed.
I shall choke off the air from his windpipe,
watch his eyes glaze, but out of respect for
our shared past, perhaps I shall speak
kindly as he goes.

Garrick reached for Riley’s neck.
My fingers are so slender, yet strong, he
thought. I could just as easily have been a
pianist.

Riley was too beaten to attempt escape
and simply lay on the bed, waiting for Gar-
rick’s fingers to close around his neck.

“No fight left in you, son?” whispered Gar-

rick. “Perhaps it is time to sleep.”

537/571
Garrick sprang catlike onto the mattress,
but his fingertips did not land on Riley’s soft
neck, as expected. Instead they somehow
clinked against cold glass, and the assassin’s
head followed, smashing into a pane of un-
seen mirror with a dull crunch, sending
cracks racing across the glass.

“But . . .” he said, baffled, blood pouring

into one eye. “But . . . I see.”

Riley turned over and looked through the
cracks in Garrick’s direction, but not at him.
“What do you see, mighty illusionist?”

Garrick’s fingers tapped the looking glass,
and he realized that he had been hood-
winked with his own magical apparatus; but
the throbbing in his head grew louder than
his thoughts. “Angled lights. A series of mir-
rors. Misdirection. But why?”

“To get you on the bed,” said a voice be-

hind him.

Garrick turned dully, foundering in the
impossibly, stood

goose down, and there,

538/571
Chevron Savano, hale and hardy, some form
of throwing missile already flashing from her
fingers, spinning in his direction.

Not so easy,

thought Garrick, and he
snatched the object from the air. Even when
dazed, I will not be struck down by the likes
of you.

The magician was irritated that he had
been injured by one of his own mirrors. But
what had the illusion accomplished, except
to delay the inevitable? He was a little
bloody, nothing more.

Garrick’s hand tingled, and he saw orange
sparks buzz around the fingers that held the
missile. Sparks buzzing like quantum bees
around honey. Puzzlement heaped upon
puzzlement.

Orange sparks? How?
Garrick opened his fingers and saw a
Timekey, and for a moment he thought it an-
other illusion, until Felix Smart’s experience
assured him that it was real.

539/571
The hazmat team I tackled earlier. Of
course, they had Timekeys and body armor.
This is one of their keys, as was the one I
smashed on the stairs. Dropped deliberately
as a ruse. Riley allowed me to see him enter
the house. Chevron simply donned a bullet-
proof vest in the minute before my arrival.

The Timekey’s digital readout was divided
into four quadrants, and the top two were
flashing.

Garrick waited a nanosecond for the in-

formation to come to him.

Top left activates the wormhole. Top right
is the countdown, which already reads zero.
The lower quadrants activate the reentry
beacon. They are not active.

“That’s right,” said Chevie. “You’re going

in, but you ain’t coming out.”

Garrick pawed at the Timekey controls
with his fingers, but they had already be-
come insubstantial; he was like a ghost try-
ing to make contact with the real world. The

540/571
Timekey slipped from his grasp and landed
on the goose down, a vortex of light opening
at its core.

“What?” said Chevie. “No last words? How
about, The world hasn’t seen the last of Al-
bert Garrick? That’s a good one.”

Riley appeared at Chevie’s side and his
eyes were wet with tears. “You murdered my
family. You stole me from my bed.” He shook
Garrick’s own cloak at him. “So that I could
be your audience.”

Garrick had bigger things on his mind
than dealing with a boy’s accusations. He felt
himself slipping away.

I am nothing, he realized. There may have
been comfort in this thought for many, but
for Albert Garrick it held only terror.
I shall be nothing for all eternity.
The orange sparks spread like magical lo-
custs along his limbs and torso, leaving a
bare
innards

behind. Ghostly

outline

541/571
wobbled inside transparent flesh, and Gar-
rick saw it all happen.

He opened his mouth to speak, but no
sound emerged, so Riley said the words for
him.

“Unto dust,” said the boy, and he spat on

the floor.

For an instant Garrick flashed silver, as
though transformed into thermite powder,
then he was sucked down into the Timekey,
which stood on its point, spinning like a top.
from its tip,
too

lightning shot

A bolt of

the

ceiling,

scorching
disappeared.

then

it

“Okay,”

said Chevie, grabbing Riley’s
shoulder and hustling him toward the steps,
“I know where this is going.”

Without an aperture at the twenty-first-
century end of the wormhole, the time tun-
nel craved energy to sustain the matter con-
version. The first things to go were the barrel
batteries, which were grabbed with lightning

542/571
fingers, squeezed dry, then tossed aside like
dead husks. Then the lightning burrowed
deep into the earth itself, siphoning geo-
thermal energy until the soil cracked and
split.

Chevie pushed Riley upstairs and toward
the front door, hearing the earth itself open
behind her with thunderous booms and
sharp snaps. She could feel Bill Riley’s
Timekey buzz sympathetically against her
chest.

“Run,” she called, wholly unnecessarily.

“The house is going to collapse.”

Riley did not need any urging. He raced
toward the door, thinking that this was the
second time he had fled this house in fear of
his life.

The house collapsed around them as they
ran, sinking into the basement’s maw, as the
structure itself fed the wormhole with kinetic
energy. Glass
shattered and stone was
crushed like sand. Chevie kicked Riley hard

543/571
in the rump to shunt him past a falling
chandelier.

Garrick had bolted the door behind him,
but this didn’t delay them, as most of the
front wall had collapsed. The fleeing pair
dived through a hole in the wall onto the
pavement and scrambled quickly from the
maelstrom of destruction behind them.

Streams of people flowed from the doors
of adjacent houses, and screaming and howl-
ing rose up in the square as the wormhole
gulped and swallowed the entire building,
excising it from its neighbors with surgical
precision. When at last the dust settled and
the cacophony faded, the house had been re-
moved, like a rotten tooth from a gum, leav-
ing the others untouched save for a score of
broken windows and a spiderweb of superfi-
cial cracks.

Riley and Chevie leaned on the park rail-
ing, as caked in dust as any victims of Ve-
suvius, but intact and uninjured.

544/571
Riley spat a ball of brick dust to the
ground. “Did you know that the entire house
would be consumed?”

Chevie touched the tender spot on her
chest where Garrick’s bullet had struck the
body armor she had stripped from a fallen
member of the hazmat team. “I knew there
was a chance, but it was worth taking.”

There was chaos on Bedford Square as
bobbies’ whistle blasts filled the air and the
bells of an approaching fire engine clanged
across from the West End. Some people had
fainted
lads
clambered over the rubble heap, calling for
survivors.

young

and

dead

away,

“We should run,” said Riley. “The police
will question everyone in a posh gaff such as
this.”

Chevie tore off her bulletproof vest and
took several breaths. “Yeah, okay, Riley. I
make the strategy decisions, remember?

545/571
Anyway, we should get out of here before the
local police blame us for something.”

Riley tucked the magician’s cloak under
his arm. “A good strategy. Lead on, Agent
Savano.”

The pair trudged to the corner of Bedford
Square, against the flow of the crowd strain-
ing to see the collapsed foundations of what
the London News would call the “House of
Hell.”

Riley and Chevie left a trail of dust behind
them. They did not speak for a while, both
engrossed in thoughts of the future. Eventu-
ally they realized that they had linked arms
as they walked.

“We are like a couple off to the opera,” said

Riley.

Chevie laughed and a puff of dust escaped
her throat. “Yeah, a zombie couple.” Her
laugh petered out. “You could have died back
there, fighting Garrick. That was not part of
the plan.”

546/571
“I thought of him, leaning over my dear
ma,” said Riley, “with his knife ready to do
its business, and I couldn’t help myself.”

Hooves clattered alongside as a hansom
cab slowed, the driver sniffing a fare, despite
of their appearance.

“We’re content on foot,” Riley called,
without glancing upward. “Move on down
the avenue.”

“Perhaps I am content to ride beside my

mates,” said a familiar voice.

It was Bob Winkle, who had somehow kept

a grip on the stolen carriage.

Winkle stood on the driver’s seat, peering
down toward the corner of Bedford Square.
“You pair had a right knees-up on that gaff,”
he commented. “A cove might expect a life of
high adventure partnering with such a duo.
Like Holmes and Watson, ye are, but with
extra munitions and explosions.”

Chevie shook herself

547/571
like a dog and
something resembling a teenage female
emerged from the dust.

“That’s a nice face, princess,” said Bob
Winkle. “If you gave it the lick of a wet cloth,
I might lower meself to kiss it.”

They breakfasted like royalty on grub pur-
chased with sovereigns found sewn into the
lining of Garrick’s cloak. They ordered coffee
with toast, oatmeal with brown sugar, fried
eggs and sausage, curried chicken with
potato, a platter of bacon, with extra grease
for strength. All finished off with beer for the
boys in spite of Chevie’s health warnings.

They sat at a street table on Piccadilly after
breakfast, watching the avenue fill up with
the day’s business.

Bob Winkle flicked a penny at the first
beggar to approach their table and set him
guarding their little space so they could talk
uninterrupted.

548/571
Riley sighed and rubbed his distended
belly. “I am full as a prince on his birthday,”
he declared.

Chevie was less stuffed, having ignored

ninety percent of what was offered to her.

I cannot stay here, she thought. My choles-

terol count would kill me in a week.

“Okay, gents,” she said, slapping the table
with purpose, “we should draw up our plans
before you guys get blind drunk.”

Bob Winkle snorted. “Drunk on beer? I
ain’t been beer drunk since I were ten.” He
grabbed the rest of the black bread from the
plate and shoved it into his pockets. “I better
go and look to the mare. You two do your
good-bye cuddling, and I’ll be back to bring
whoever’s going to the Orient. I suppose
there ain’t much more than splinters left of
that conjuring equipment me and the boys
ferried over earlier.”

Winkle dodged down the street, eyes and

ears open for bluebottles.

549/571
“That guy will land you in trouble,” warned

Chevie.

“Well, he won’t be spending his waking
hours trying to murder anyone, or his sleep-
ing hours dreaming of death.”

“Maybe so. But I still think you should
come back with me. A part of you belongs in
the twenty-first century.”

Riley sighed. “But a part of me is here. I
have a half brother still living somewhere.
Perhaps in Brighton? With Bob Winkle’s
help, maybe I can find him.”

“You can afford Winkle’s help?”
Riley shrugged. “For the time being. I
know where Garrick kept his cash. I suppose
the theater is mine too.”

“So you will search for your brother?”
Riley pulled the magician’s cloak tight
around his shoulders. “I am a magician now.
I shall put a troupe together and enjoy the
theater life until I find Ginger Tom. Perhaps
he knows my Christian name.”

550/571
Chevie’s eyes were downcast. “Yeah, I bet
he does.” She reached into her pocket and
pulled out the final Timekey left behind by
the hazmat team. “The team and their gear
went down with the house, but I had Bob’s
boys collect their Timekeys while they were
setting up the mirror trap, so, if you ever
change your mind . . .”

Riley hooked the lanyard around his neck.
“Thank you, Chevie. But this is my century,
and I belong here.”

Chevie wagged a finger. “Never say never,

right?”

“Yes, you are correct. There may come a

time when I need to escape.”

“It’s preprogrammed, set up already, so all
you have to do is press the button. Make sure
the four quadrants light up, or you’ll end up
stuck in the wormhole with you-know-who.”

“I will be certain to check.”
Chevie sipped her coffee, which had the
consistency of mud and tasted like cough

551/571
syrup. “I feel there should be more, you
know. We’ve gone through hell, and now I’m
just gonna walk away?”

“We will always be close, Chevie. I know

the secret of your tattoo, remember?”

Chevie patted her own shoulder. “My tat-
too? Yeah, well. I’m afraid I got sold a turkey
on that one.”

“Sold a turkey?” said Riley, frowning.
“A crock. A bowl of bull. A heap of lies.”
“Your father lied to you? And you lied to

me?”

“Afraid so, but I’m telling you the truth
now, on account of all the bonding we’re do-
ing. Dad loved telling that story, but the
whole Chevron thing came about because my
father had a falling out with the owner of the
local Texaco.”
“Tex-a-co?”
“Yeah. A fueling station for automobiles.
So, just to annoy this guy, and because of his
beer problem, he gets a tattoo and then calls

552/571
his firstborn Chevron, which is a competing
gas station.”

Riley pushed his tankard away with the tip

of one finger. “So, no noble warrior?”

“No. And I based my whole life on that
story, got the tattoo, told anyone who would
listen, became an agent. Last year I meet the
Texaco guy, who is broken up that my pop
died, and he tells me the truth. I am named
after a gas station.”

“Wow,” said Riley, who had heard the

word used in the future and liked it.

“Wow? That’s it, huh? No magical wisdom

from the Great Riley?”

“We have both built our lives on lies,” said
Riley. “I was not abandoned to slum canni-
bals, and your ancestors were not great war-
riors; but the lies did their work, and we are
who we are. I think you are the youngest
agent in your police force for good reason.
Perhaps in spite of the name Chevron.”

553/571
Chevie smiled. “Yeah, okay, Riley. That’s

not bad. I’m gonna go with that.”

They abandoned the cab and walked to the
house on Half Moon Street. Bob Winkle was
doing his utmost to decipher the limited
facts he had been given.

“So, princess. You plan to enter this house

and stay there for a hundred years?”

Chevie patted his shoulder. “Something
like that, Winkle. I would say See you
around, but
it’s probably not going to
happen.”

“So we should kiss now?”
“Of course,” said Chevie and gave him a
peck on the cheek that he would have to be
content with.

“Next year I will be fifteen,” said Bob
Winkle, emboldened by the kiss. “We could
be married. I could make fair chink off a bat-
tling Injun maid at the fairgrounds.”

“Tempting as that offer is, I think I’ll

pass.”

554/571
“Very well, princess. But now that I am
part owner of a theater, the ladies will be all
over Robert Winkle. Six weeks I will wait for
you, not a minute more.”

“I understand,” said Chevie, smiling. “It’s

the best you can do.”

Riley walked her to the front step, while
Bob perched on a neighboring set of stairs,
watching for constables’ helmets.

“Be careful, Chevron Savano,” he said.
“The future is a dangerous place. It is only a
matter of time until the Martians arrive.”

“Yeah, I’m gonna watch out for anything

with tentacles.”

“Hurry yourselves,” called Bob Winkle.
“This is a posh road. Two more minutes and
our collars get pinched.”

The boy was right. It would be a shame if

this affair were to end in a prison cell.

Chevie hugged Riley tightly. “Thanks for

everything,” she said.

555/571
Riley hugged her back. “Thanks to you,
too, Chevron Savano, warrior and fuel sta-
tion. Perhaps one day I will put our story in-
to words. It would rival the tales of H. G.
Wells himself.”

“Maybe you already did,” said Chevie. “I’ll

Google it when I get home.”

“Googling sounds like a painful proced-

ure,” said Riley.

Bob whistled loudly. “I see a helmet, Riley.

Leave her be, now.”

There was no more delaying it. Chevie
kissed Riley’s cheek and squeezed his hand,
then closed the door behind her. The base-
ment room was dark and dank, just as Chev-
ie remembered it from that brief moment be-
fore the sack went over their heads. She saw
chicken bones in the corner with rats
huddled over them like tramps around a
bonfire. The rats did not seem concerned by
her presence; rather they looked her over for
the meat on her bones.

556/571
Being stared down by large rats was a good
way to focus a person on getting to some-
place with smaller rats, so Chevie pulled out
Bill Riley’s Timekey and walked briskly to
the metal pad.

No time like the present.
She punched the Timekey’s control pad
and made very sure that all four quadrants lit
up.

After a second’s dry vibration, the key
began sprouting orange sparks like a Roman
candle.

Here we go, she thought. I hope Victoria’s

house doesn’t fall down.

And then she thought, I hope Riley will be

okay. That kid deserves a break.

She frowned. Not that my own future will
be a bed of roses. I am going to spend
months answering questions. Thank God
Waldo saw the whole thing. I hope he recor-
ded it.

557/571
Chevie held up the Timekey. All four quad-

rants were flashing.

Good-bye, Riley. Be well.
Chevie smiled and orange sparks flowed

between her teeth.

Please, no monkey parts, she thought, and

then was gone.
Out of time.
Bob Winkle volunteered to steal a bicycle
to ferry them both across to High Holborn,
but Riley said no.

“I am your partner, you know,” Winkle
said. “How come you is issuing commands
like some form of little Caesar?”

Riley decided to stake his claim right off.
Winkle could swallow it or not as he pleased.
“I am the Great Savano, Master Winkle. I
own the theater and the equipment, and I
know where the gold is buried. If you want to
work for me, then bully and do as yer bid. If
not, then off back to the Old Nichol with your

bones and smoke
yerself.”

some wallpaper

558/571
for

Bob whistled. “Harsh, Riley. Harsh and
cold. But them are good traits in a master
and will keep the others from getting out of
line. Also, the Great Savano. That has a real
ring to it.”

“Thank you, Bob.” Riley paused. “Others? I

can’t feed the entire rookery.”

“I know, but I have three brothers that
need looking after. We come as a set, you
see. All or none.”

“Who could split a fellow from his broth-
ers?” said Riley. “That would be uncommon
cruel. You should fetch them at once, and we
will rendezvous at the Orient to draw up our
plans. Can any of your brothers juggle?”

“Juggle?” said Bob, already crossing the
road. “Why, Mr. Riley, they juggles each
other.”

And he was off down an alley, making a
direct line for the rookery, to break the news

559/571
the Winkles were saved from Old

that
Nichol.

Riley walked on alone, casting furtive
glances over his shoulder whenever a chill
breeze cooled his forehead.

Garrick is gone, he told himself. Lost in the

wormhole.

Lost in the wormhole? Could that be any

more than a dream?

Chevie was no dream.
A beautiful maiden from an exotic land
come to free him from the tyrant Garrick. It
read like a dream and would make a capital
novel.

The only thing missing is a dinosaur come

back to life.

Riley walked on, realizing that it would be
a long time before he could fully enjoy the
sun on his face and ignore the chill.

Every stone kicked in an alley, every
creak of wood on the stairway— I will hear
and see Garrick everywhere.

560/571
But there would be a friend close by, and
his brothers, and in time maybe his own
brother.

Ginger Tom, he thought, I am coming,

and oh, boy, do I have a tale to tell you.

Riley lifted the hem of his velvet cloak out
of the city mud and gazed up at the triple
span of the Holborn Viaduct, the city’s most
impressive feat of modern architecture.

Home once more, he thought. Home to a

new life.

Riley stepped around a toppled fruit cart
and in seconds was lost in the morning
throng of everyday folk doing their daily job
of staying alive in London town.

Epilogue

The Battering Rams’ resident tattoo artist,
Farley, trailed behind Riley through Hol-
born, his face hidden by a silken hood of a
kind favored by Arab mercenaries. Riley
might not have recognized the tattooist even
without the hood, had he caught sight of
him. Farley did not seem nearly so decrepit
as he had in the Hidey-Hole. His back was
ramrod straight, and his sure-footed stride
was that of a man in early middle age.

Pedestrians gave Farley a wide berth on
the footpath for two reasons. For one,
something red glittered from the shadows
under his hood like the night eye of a wolf,
and for another—if a second reason was
needed to avoid a gent with a wolf’s eye—
this man was obviously a lunatic and
destined for a bed in one of Her Majesty’s

562/571
asylums, for he was speaking into his closed
fist as though there was a fairy living in there
listening to every word.

So people stepped aside and cast quick,

sidelong glances at Farley.

Talking to oneself is the first sign of mad-
ness, they thought. And there ain’t no pre-
dicting when a madman will spring into sud-
den violence.

What the Victorian pedestrians could not
have possibly known was that Farley was
speaking into a microphone strapped to the
back of his wrist rather than to a fairy. And
the wolf’s eye glowing from the shadowy re-
cesses of his eye socket was, in fact, a mon-
ocular infrared scope with a visible-lightb-
locking filter. Simply put, to Farley, anyone
who had been in a time tunnel and whose
atoms had been coated in its particular radi-
ation would sparkle gently, as though coated
with gold dust. It was a very handy way to

563/571
keep an eye on someone without getting too
close.

“Rosie, patch me through to the colonel,”
he said into the microphone, his accent still
English, as it had been in the Rams’ Hidey-
Hole. Farley had been in character so long
that he rarely came out of it.

“You sure?” said a voice in his earpiece,
male in spite of the name. “He’s having a
massage. You know what he’s like.”

Farley did indeed know what the colonel
was like—no one knew it better, but he also
knew that the colonel had asked to be kept
up to date. In truth, Farley suspected that his
superior was excited that something a little
out of the ordinary was happening. This
stage of the operation was all preparation,
which was never very interesting, so this
whole Agent Savano thing had put a little
pep in everyone’s step.

564/571
“I am sure, Rosenbaum. Just put me
through. I’m out in the open here, talking in-
to my hand like a halfwit.”

“Connecting you now, Major.”
Farley held for a moment, watching Riley
open the door to a theater that had seen bet-
ter days.

The boy knew where the other key was,
noted Farley, stepping into the archway of a
butcher’s yard. Looks like he inherits the
building.

His earpiece crackled as the colonel picked

up the phone at his end.

“Hey, dude. How’s it going on the street?”
Farley winced. He hated it when the colon-
el tried to be casual and chummy: that was
not how the army worked. And, at any rate, it
was an act. The colonel had no friends.

“It’s fine, sir. On the streets. That situation
we talked about is winding down. No need to
deploy.”

565/571
The colonel chuckled and it sounded like a
well-oiled engine purring. “Come on, Farley.
Why are you speaking in code? Who’s going
to be listening in? That clown Charismo
barely managed to put a landline together.
Telephonicus Farspeak? What a joke. Spell it
out, Major.”

Farley took a breath. “Yessir, Colonel.
Force of habit, sir. Never jeopardize the op-
eration. Loose lips sink ships, and all that.”

“Just give me the facts, man. Where’s

Garrick?”

“He’s gone, sir. Toast. I got the gist on the

bug I planted in the boy’s bandage.”

“Gone?” The colonel sounded disappoin-

ted. “I liked him. He was a funny guy.”

chosen,

Funny was not the word Farley would
have
re-
membered the assassin looming over him
with a bottle of ether.

especially when he

“The others?”

566/571
“The boy is here, in Holborn,” continued
Farley. “And Agent Savano has entered the
portal at Half Moon Street.”

“So, no damage done?”
“No, sir. We are still running dark. As far
as the future is concerned, Charles Smart’s
technology died with him, and we are on
schedule.”

“What about Charismo? Is he still nicely

placed where we can use him?”

Farley ground his teeth, never happy about
delivering bad news to the colonel. “Not ex-
actly, sir. The boy set him up for a fall with
the duke. They saw the mutations. I imagine
he’s getting lobotomized about now. I doubt
he will have enough brain cells left to play
fetch, Colonel.”

There was silence for a moment, except for
the thump-slap of the colonel’s masseuse at
work.

567/571
“I never liked that guy and his creepy
masks anyway,” said the colonel at last. “We
can work around him.”

Farley dropped his hand for a moment and
sighed. A soldier never knew when the colon-
el would go off like an automatic weapon,
spewing bile instead of bullets.

“What about the boy? Should I remove

him from the equation?”

The colonel mulled this over. “No. That’s a
plucky kid there. He could be useful, and I
don’t want you to get caught with your hands
wet.”

“Riley is a loose end, sir. And he could

cause trouble.”

“We know where he is, correct?”
“Yessir.”
“And we can neutralize this Riley anytime

we want, right?”

“Yes, we can. Easy as pie.”
“Well, then, Major. Let’s keep an eye on
the boy for now. If he pokes his nose into

568/571
anything remotely non-Victorian, then you
pay him a midnight visit. How’s that sound?”
Farley stepped into the street and watched
Riley’s form flit past a row of upstairs win-
dows, his outline shining through the net
curtains.

“That sounds fine, sir. He’s not going

anywhere.”

“Good,” said the colonel. “Now put one of
your men on the kid. I need you back at the
Hidey-Hole so that Malarkey doesn’t get
suspicious.”

“On my way, sir.”
Farley severed the connection and took

one last look at the Orient Theatre.

“I’ll be seeing you, Riley,” he said to the

glowing silhouette. “Real soon.”

Praise for Eoin Colfer’s ARTEMIS

FOWL SERIES

Artemis Fowl: The Last Guardian

“A fitting end to a brilliantly conceived and
developed series.”

—Kirkus Reviews (starred review)

Artemis Fowl: The Atlantis Complex

“Colfer keeps the action moving with laughs
and gadgetry. . . . A treat for series fans.”

—Booklist

Artemis Fowl: The Time Paradox

“The author once again offers an exhilarating
ride through the fantastical world of Artemis
Fowl.”

—School Library Journal

Artemis Fowl: The Lost Colony

“Fast-paced, funny, and wholly enjoyable,
the book is an action-packed thrill ride.”

—VOYA

Artemis Fowl: The Opal Deception

“This book is magical.”

570/571
—The Washington Post

Artemis Fowl: The Eternity Code

“Agile prose, rapid-fire dialogue and wise-
acre humor ensure that readers will burn the
midnight oil to the finish.”

—Publishers Weekly

Artemis Fowl: The Arctic Incident

“The world that Colfer creates is as vivid and
fantastical as any shire, Gotham, or galaxy
far, far away in recent memory.” —Enter-
tainment Weekly

Artemis Fowl

“Will grab your interest, no matter what your
age.”

—The New York Post

@Created by PDF to ePub

